NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017
108      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
C9 ROYALTY RECEIVABLE
Accounting Policy
The royalty receivable is revalued at each reporting period based on expected future cash flows that are dependent on sales volumes,
price changes and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the royalty receivable is
recognised in profit or loss. The cash receipts will be recorded against the royalty receivable which will be decreased over time. Since the
contract is long term, unwinding of the discount (to reflect the time value of money) for the asset will be recognised under interest income.
The royalty receivable is measured based on management’s expectations of the future cash flows with the re-measurement recorded in the
Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income at each reporting date.
The amount expected to be received during the next 12 months is disclosed as a current receivable and the discounted expected future
cash flow beyond 12 months is disclosed as a non-current receivable.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The fair value of the royalty receivable is estimated based on expected future cash flows that are dependent on sales volumes, price
changes and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
31 December
2017
$M
31 December
2016
$M
Opening balance
199
205
Cash received/receivable
(29)
(21)
Unwinding of the discount
21
21
Re-measurement of royalty receivable
8
(6)
199
199
Split between:
Current
24
31
Non-current
175
168
199
199
A right to receive a royalty of 4% of Free on Board Trimmed sales from the Middlemount mine was acquired as part of the merger with
Gloucester Coal Ltd. This financial asset has been determined to have a finite life being the life of the Middlemount Mine and is measured on a
fair value basis.
(a) Risk exposure and fair value measurements
Information about the Group’s exposure to price risk, foreign exchange risk and methods and assumptions used in determining fair value of the
royalty receivable is provided in Note D8.
C10 PROVISIONS
Accounting Policies
Provisions are:
––
recognised when: the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event; it is probable that cash will be required to
settle the obligation; and the amount has been reliably estimated.
––
measured at the present value of the management’s best estimate at reporting date of the cash outflow required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments
of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability where the time value is material. Any increase in the provision due to the
passage of the time is recognised as an interest expense.
C – OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES