FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      ANNUAL REPORT 2017      143
F7 NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS
Certain new accounting standards and interpretations have been published that are not mandatory for 31 December 2017 reporting periods and
have not been early adopted by the Group. The Group’s assessment of the impact of these new standards and interpretations is set out below.
Reference and Title
Details of New Standard/Amendment/Interpretation
Application date
for the Group
AASB 9
Financial Instruments
Amends the requirements for classification and measurement of financial assets. The available-for-sale
and held-to-maturity categories of financial assets in AASB 139 have been eliminated. Under AASB 9,
there are three categories of financial assets:
a)	 Amortised cost
b)	 Fair value through profit or loss
c)	 Fair value through other comprehensive income
The standard introduces an ‘expected credit loss’ model for the measurement of the impairment of
financial assets, so it is no longer necessary for a credit event to have occurred before a credit loss
is recognised.
The following requirements have generally been carried forward unchanged from AASB 139 Financial
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement into AASB 9:
a)	 Classification and measurement of financial liabilities; and
b)	 Derecognition requirements for financial assets and liabilities
However, AASB 9 requires that gains or losses on financial liabilities measured at fair value are recognised
in profit or loss, except that the effects of changes in the liability’s credit risk are recognised in other
comprehensive income.
Impact:
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of AASB 9 will have no impact on the recognition of amounts
in the Group’s financial statements, including hedging activity, it is impracticable at this stage to provide a
reasonable estimate of such impact, but there will be additional disclosures required.
1 January 2018
AASB 16
Leases
This standard introduces a single lessee accounting model that eliminates the requirement for leases to
be classified as operating or finance leases.
The main changes introduced by the new standard include:
a)	 Recognition of a right-to-use asset and liability for all leases (excluding short term leases with less than
12 months of tenure an leases relating to low value assets);
b)	 Deprecation of right-to-use assets in-line with AASB 116 Property, plant and equipment in profit or
loss and unwinding of the liability in principal and interest components;
c)	 Variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate are included in the initial measurement of
the lease liability using the index or rate at the commencement date;
d)	 By applying a practical expedient, a lessee is permitted to elect not to separate non-lease components
and instead account all components as a lease; and
e)	 Additional disclosure requirements.
Impact:
Although the Directors anticipate that the adoption of AASB 16 will impact the Group’s financial
statements, it is impracticable at this stage to provide a reasonable estimate of such impact.
1 January 2019
AASB 15
Revenue from Contracts with Customers
An entity will recognise revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers
in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange
for those goods or services. This means that revenue will be recognised when control of goods or
services is transferred, rather than on transfer of risks and rewards as is currently the case under AASB
118 Revenue.
Impact:
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of AASB 15 will have no impact on the recognition of amounts
in the Group’s financial statements, but there will be additional disclosures required.
1 January 2018