FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      ANNUAL REPORT 2017      91
B2 REVENUE
Accounting Policies
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable. Amounts disclosed as revenue are net of returns, trade
allowances, rebates and amounts collected on behalf of third parties.
The Group recognises revenue when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured and it is probable that future economic benefits will
flow to the entity. Revenue is recognised in the profit or loss as follows:
(i) Sale of coal
Revenue from the sale of coal is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and
can be measured reliably. Risks and rewards are considered passed to the buyer at the time of delivery, usually on a Free On Board (“FOB”)
basis. On occasion the sale of coal is recognised as the ship pulls into harbour on a Free Alongside Ship (“FAS”) basis or from the stockpile
on an ex-works basis.
(ii) Interest
Interest income from a financial asset is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate
applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that
asset’s net carrying amount. Interest income from a finance lease is recognised over the term of the lease based on a pattern reflecting a
constant periodic rate of return on the net investment in the lease.
(iii) Services
Revenue from the rendering of a service is recognised upon the delivery of the service to the customer.
(iv) Other
Other primarily consists of dividends, rents, sub-lease rental and management fees. Dividends are recognised as revenue when the right
to receive payment is established. Rental income arising on land surrounding a mine site is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the
lease term. Contingent rental income is recognised as income in the periods in which it is earned.
31 December
2017
$M
31 December
2016
$M
From continuing operations
Sales revenue
Sale of coal
2,635
1,203
Fair value losses recycled from hedge reserve
(229)
(133)
2,406
1,070
Other revenue
Interest income
114
125
Mining services fees
52
38
Other
29
5
195
168
2,601
1,238