DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
48      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
Helen Gillies
Non-Executive Director (30 January 2018 – Current). MBA,
MConstrLaw, LLB(Hons), BCom, AICD
Experience and expertise
Helen Gillies is an experienced legal, risk and compliance professional,
with expertise in the engineering, construction, maintenance, aviation
and services sectors.
Ms Gillies was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Bankstown
and Camden Airports in September 2017 and a Non-Executive
Director of ASX listed company, Monadelphous Group Limited and
Red Flag Group Limited in 2016. Ms. Gillies was a Director of Sinclair
Knight Merz Management Pty Ltd and General Manager (Risk) and
General Counsel of Sinclair Knight Merz since 1995.
Ms Helen Gillies holds a Master of Business Administration and a
Master of Construction Law, as well as undergraduate degrees in
Commerce and Law. Ms Gillies is a Fellow of the Australian Institute of
Company Directors.
Other current key directorships
Director of Red Flag Group (Holdings) Limited
Director or Monadelphous Group Limited
Director of BAC Holdings Pty Ltd
Former directorships in last three years
None
Special responsibilities
Member of Nomination and Remuneration Committee
Interests in shares and options
None
David Moult
Non-Executive Director (30 January 2018 – Current). C. Eng (Mining),
MBA, FAusIMM, FIMMM, MAICD
Experience and expertise
David Moult was appointed as a Director of Yancoal in January
2018. He has over 40 years’ global coal mining experience. He was
Managing Director & CEO of Centennial Coal Company Limited from
2011 to 2017 and prior to that the Chief Operating Officer from 1998.
Mr Moult has worked with Joy Mining Machinery in the USA and
Australia, RJB Mining PLC and British Coal in the UK.
Mr Moult is a former Chairman and Director of the Australian Coal
Association Low Emissions Technology Ltd, former Director of
the Minerals Council of Australia, former Chairman and Director of
the New South Wales Minerals Council and former Director of the
Newcastle Coal Infrastructure Group and Port Kembla Coal Terminal.
Mr Moult is a Member of the University of NSW Education Trust
Advisory Committee.
Mr Moult is a Chartered Mining Engineer and holds a Master of
Business Administration.
Other current key directorships
Chairman and Director of Coal Services Pty Ltd
Former directorships in last three years
Non-Executive Director Centennial Coal Company Limited
Managing Director & CEO of Centennial Coal Company Limited
Director of the Minerals Council of Australia
Chairman and Director of the Australian Coal Association Low
Emissions Technology Ltd
Director of the New South Wales Minerals Council
Special responsibilities
Chairman of Health, Safety and Environment Committee
Interests in shares and options
None
Vincent O’Rourke AM
Non-Executive Director (22 December 2009 – 30 January 2018).
B. Econ.
Experience and expertise
Mr O’Rourke brings over 40 years of corporate and railway industry
experience spanning operations, finance and business management
to the Board of Yancoal. In 1990, Mr O’Rourke was appointed
Queensland Commissioner for Railways and was the Chief Executive
Officer of Queensland Rail (QR) from 1991 to 2000. As Chief Executive
Officer of QR, Mr O’Rourke oversaw a 10 year program of reform and
modernisation including corporatisation in 1995. He was awarded a
Member of the Order of Australia in 2000 and a Centenary Medal in
2003 for services to the rail transport industry and QR.
Mr O’Rourke holds a Bachelor of Economics from the University of
New England. He is an Honorary Doctor of the Queensland University
of Technology and Griffith University.
Other current key directorships
Chairman of Rail Innovation Australia Pty Ltd
Deputy Chairman of Mater Health Services Brisbane Limited
Chairman of Holy Cross Laundry Pty Ltd
Director of White Energy Company Limited
Director of Queensland Museum Foundation
Director of Yancoal SCN Limited
Former directorships in last three years
Chairman of the Queensland Workplace Health and Safety Board
Director of Premier Coal Limited (resigned on 27 May 2016)
Interests in shares and options
1,119,565 fully paid Yancoal ordinary shares