With sufficient allocation to meet
existing and potential brownfield
needs, Yancoal exports 100%
of its product through five eastern
Australian ports.
INFRASTRUCTURE
Following the acquisition of Coal & Allied,
Yancoal increased its share of ownership of
Port Waratah Coal Services, supporting the
immediate increase in production output from
the Mount Thorley Warkworth and Hunter
Valley Operations assets.
NEWCASTLE COAL
INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP
(“NCIG”) 27%
Yancoal continues to be one of five company
shareholders involved in the NCIG export
coal terminal in Newcastle, New South Wales.
Yancoal has a 27 percent ownership with an
allocation of approximately 19.6Mt per annum
(100% basis).
PORT WARATAH COAL
SERVICES (“PWCS”) 36.5%
Yancoal has take-or-pay contracts with
PWCS for the export of coal through the
terminals at Newcastle, with a port allocation
of approximately 35.1Mt (100% basis).
Yancoal acquired a 36.5 percent ownership of
PWCS as part of the Coal & Allied acquisition.
WIGGINS ISLAND COAL EXPORT
TERMINAL (“WICET”) 9.4%
Yancoal is one of five owners of WICET,
which has a capacity of 27.0Mt per annum.
Yancoal’s contracted capacity is 1.5Mt
per annum, allocated to the Yarrabee mine.
RAIL
Yancoal is supported by the following
rail networks to transport product from
mine to port:
•	 The NSW Hunter Valley Coal Chain
supports the Hunter Valley Operations,
Mount Thorley Warkworth, Moolarben,
Austar, Ashton, Stratford Duralie
and Donaldson operations, with coal
transported to the Port of Newcastle;
•	 The QLD Blackwater System supports
the Yarrabee operation, transporting
coal to the Port of Gladstone; and
•	 The QLD Goonyella System supports
the Middlemount operation, with coal
transported to the Port of Hay Point
and Abbot Point Coal Terminal.
TAKE-OR-PAY
Yancoal significantly reduced its take-or-
pay exposure from the year prior (2016:
$76 million) to $65 million in rail and port
commitments in excess of planned sales,
$4.7 million of which is attributable to
the acquired Coal & Allied assets from
1 September 2017.
LOGISTICS
The Yancoal logistics team continues to
implement strategic measures to reduce
take-or-pay exposure across the Group by
trading between sites and with other users.
ANNUAL REPORT 2017         29