TURNAROUND
The substantial cash flows generated from
the acquired Coal & Allied assets, combined
with the associated operational synergies
and benefits of our equity raising, have
immediately and materially strengthened
Yancoal’s balance sheet.
It is with great pleasure we have announced
Yancoal’s recovery to profit, achieving a total
operating EBIT of $732 million before tax, up
$693 million on the year prior, and a profit after
tax of $229 million from revenue of $2.6 billion.
This significant turnaround is mostly attributable
to the successful completion of the Coal
& Allied transaction at a time of increasing
pricing strength and sustainability across the
metallurgical and thermal coal markets.
PRODUCTION INCREASE
The addition of attributable production from
the newly acquired Mount Thorley Warkworth
and Hunter Valley Operations mines generated
an immediate and significant increase in
production, allowing Yancoal to maximise
sales and blending at a time of benchmark-high
pricing for semi-soft and thermal coals with
key buyers.
Yancoal achieved total saleable coal production
of 31.5Mt (23.4Mt equity share) for the year
(31 December 2016: 16.0Mt equity share) and
total Run of Mine (“ROM”) coal production of
41.1Mt (30.6Mt equity share) for the year
(31 December 2016: 21.2Mt equity share).
Such a strong production result includes only
four months of attributable activity from the
newly acquired tier-one assets and clearly
demonstrates Yancoal is very well positioned to
realise significant value for our shareholders in
the years ahead.
Combining the world-class assets of Coal &
Allied’s Mount Thorley Warkworth and Hunter
Valley Operations with the Company’s existing
portfolio, the acquisition enables the maximising
of synergies between Yancoal assets and
supports the Company’s vision for continued
market growth.
THE ACQUISITION
Critically, we approached our competitive
bid for Coal & Allied with a commitment to
pricing-discipline, ensuring we negotiated a
commercially robust offer in the best interests
of all parties of US$2.45 billion cash payable
on completion, plus US$240 million in future
non-contingent royalty payments over five years
following completion, and a coal price linked
contingent royalty.
To support the funding of the acquisition,
Yancoal also conducted a pro-rata
renounceable entitlement offer of
23,464,929,520 fully paid ordinary shares
to raise US$2.35 billion, and an associated
placement of 1,500,000,000 fully paid ordinary
shares to raise a further US$150 million.
The pro-rata entitlement offer attracted new
investors, provided greater depth to our
shareholder base, and efficiently generated
the necessary funding to support the next
stage of our business’ evolution.
At the same time, Yancoal also entered into
a binding agreement to establish a 51:49
unincorporated joint venture with Glencore in
relation to the Hunter Valley Operations asset,
following completion of the acquisition.
The joint venture arrangement provides
significant combined synergies and
commercial opportunities for both Yancoal
and Glencore, with shareholders set to
benefit from the co-operative management
experience and operational skills of two
of Australia’s leading coal producers. The
joint venture remains subject to Glencore
achieving all required approvals.
SHAREHOLDER SUPPORT
Throughout the transaction Yancoal operated
swiftly and with certainty, supported by our
majority shareholder, Yanzhou Coal Mining
Company Ltd, and Yanzhou’s 56 percent
shareholder, Yankuang Group Company Ltd.
Yanzhou shares Yancoal’s commitment to
continuous improvement and a belief in
operating to the highest standards of safety,
integrity, excellence and with respect for our
people and the countries in which we operate.
With their continued investment and that of
our new second-largest shareholder Cinda
International HGB Investment (UK) Limited,
we have demonstrated Yancoal’s long term
commitment to the local resources sector as a
significant employer and exporter for Australia.
Investing within Australia requires flexibility,
bravery, certainty and an ability to trust the
management team working within the country.
The strategic acquisition of Coal & Allied is a
credit to the management teams of Yancoal
and our majority shareholders.
OPERATIONAL STRENGTH
Following the completion of the transaction on
1 September 2017, we have successfully and
efficiently integrated the people, processes
and systems of the newly acquired assets into
the Yancoal Group. Sharing our values and
core operating principles across operations to
ensure we are culturally aligned and focused
on achieving our production goals for the
year ahead.
With this transaction Yancoal’s Board
and executive have increased the capability
and capacity required to generate new
organic growth.
We have also maintained our strength in
project management, completing the Stage
Two Moolarben underground mine ahead of
schedule and below budget, commencing
longwall mining in October.
Our strategic decision to commit to the
development of the Moolarben Stage Two
Project in 2014 during the global coal market
downturn, has appropriately prepared our
business to respond swiftly and with surety
to the recent price recovery.
We are now reaping the benefits of our early
project investment and belief in the long-term
return of the global market, understanding
the risks and opportunities of the mining cycle.
MOVING FORWARD
While there is much work ahead for all of our
teams, we retain a positive outlook towards
the continued improvement within established
and untapped developing global coal markets.
We also continue to focus on achieving our
goal of operating without injury and achieving
cost-efficiencies across the Group.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank
our people for their drive and dedication to
safe production and instituting the highest
operating standards.
Together, our people have fortified Yancoal
against recent years of turbulent market
forces and challenging operating conditions
to overcome and establish our business as
a true global market leader.
With the support of our majority shareholders
and our joint venture and marketing partners,
Yancoal Australia has the leadership, asset
portfolio, experience, and long term strategy
required to build a brighter future for all.
As we enter 2018, Yancoal is ready for the
next exciting step in our continuing journey.
$732M
UP $693M
TOTAL OPERATING EBIT
FOR 2017
ANNUAL REPORT 2017         9