DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
52      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
REMUNERATION REPORT – AUDITED
Dear Shareholder,
I am pleased to introduce the Yancoal Australia Ltd (the “Company”) and its controlled entities (the “Group”) 2017 Remuneration Report.
Over 2017, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee continued to review the Company’s remuneration framework to ensure remuneration
arrangements were in line with sound corporate governance for an Australian listed company and for a Company of its size.
The Company has significantly transitioned from a loss making enterprise to one that is now generating profit. The company has also
successfully completed the Coal & Allied transaction which was a transformative project. Consequently, our remuneration structure reflects a
business in transition.
Programs were developed to reward specific major milestones and projects as they were accomplished.
––
A break-even bonus to focus the executives’ attention on driving towards profitability;
––
Transaction bonus – a special incentive to reward those actively involved in the acquisition of the Coal & Allied business over the last two and
half years.
The Board considers the success of each these was fundamental to growing shareholder value. The benefits from these special incentives have
been recognized in FY 2017 accounts and will be paid to the participants during 2018.
Having laid the foundations for our business going forward we are in the process of reviewing the strategy and structure of remuneration.
We expect the outcome of this review during 2018 will be executive remuneration arrangements that are competitive, consistent with
contemporary market practice and tailored to align with Yancoal’s short and long term strategic objectives. The right balance of well-constructed
performance based on short and long term incentives delivered in cash and equity is expected to eliminate the need for special project
incentives beyond 2018.
This report sets out remuneration information for the Company’s Key Management Personnel for the 12 months ended 31 December 2017.
Yours sincerely,
Xiyong Li
Chairman of the Board,
Chair of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee