NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017
124      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
D8 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(d) Fair value measurements (continued)
(ii) Valuation techniques
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined using valuation techniques. These valuation
techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available. If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are
observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3. This is the case for the
royalty receivable.
The valuation techniques used for level 2 financial instruments are:
Description
Valuation Technique(s)
Inputs used
Forward Foreign Exchange Contracts
Income approach using discount cash flow
methodology
Current forward exchange rates applicable to
remaining life of contract
(iii) Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (level 3)
The following table presents the changes in level 3 instruments for the year ended 31 December 2017:
31 December
2017
Royalty
Receivable
$M
31 December
2016
Royalty
Receivable
$M
Opening balance
199
205
Cash received/receivable
(29)
(21)
Unwinding of the discount
21
21
Remeasurement of the royalty receivable recognised in profit and loss
8
(6)
Closing balance
199
199
Royalty receivable
The fair value of the royalty receivable is the fair value of the right to receive a royalty of 4% of Free on Board Trimmed Sales from the
Middlemount Mine. The financial asset has a finite life being the life of the Middlemount Mine and will be measured on a fair value basis.
The fair value is determined using the discounted future cash flows that are dependent on the following unobservable inputs: forecast sales
volumes, coal prices and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The forecast sales volumes are based on the internally maintained budgets, five
year business plan and life of mine models. The forecast coal prices and long term exchange rates are based on external data consistent with
the data used for impairment assessments (refer to Note C3). The risk-adjusted post-tax discount rate used to determine the future cash flows
is 10%.
The estimated fair value could increase significantly if the following unobservable inputs of sales volumes and coal prices were higher and if the
Australian dollar weakens against the US dollar. The estimated fair value would also increase if the risk-adjusted discount rate was lower.
(iv) Fair values of other financial instruments
The carrying amount is approximate to the fair value for the following:
(i)	 Trade and other receivables
(ii)	 Other financial assets
(iii)	 Trade and other payables
(iv)	 Interest-bearing liabilities
D – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING