DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
60      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
6.	 Non-Executive Director fees
Objective
The Board seeks to set remuneration for Non-Executive Directors at a level which:
––
provides the Company with the ability to attract and retain directors of the highest calibre;
––
reflects the responsibilities and demands made on Non-Executive Directors; and
––
is reasonable and acceptable to the Company’s shareholders.
Structure
The remuneration structure for the Non-Executive Directors is distinct from the remuneration structure for Executives in line with sound
corporate governance.
The Company set an aggregate remuneration cap of $3,500,000 per annum for all Non-Executive Directors. Consistent with the Constitution,
remuneration payable to each Non-Executive Director has been approved by the Company’s majority shareholder, Yanzhou.
The total Board and Committee fees paid by the Company to Non-Executive Directors in 2017, excluding payments for extra services outlined
below, was $666,645 which is $2,833,355 below the current aggregate cap of $3,500,000 per annum.
During 2017, Non-Executive Directors were remunerated by way of fixed fees in the form of cash and superannuation (to the maximum
superannuation guarantee cap). There has been no change to the Board and Committee fees from 2016 to 2017. No equity instruments were
issued to Non-Executive Directors over 2017 as part of their remuneration package. No element of the Non-Executive Director fees are linked
to performance.
Neither Board nor Committee fees were paid to nominee Directors of Yanzhou (Xiyong Li, Cunliang Lai, Yuxiang Wu, Fuqi Wang, Baocai
Zhang, Qingchun Zhao and Xiangqian Wu) as the responsibilities of Board or Committee membership were considered part of their role and
remuneration arrangements with their nominating company. William Randall and Xing Feng were not paid any Board or Committee fees.
Neither Board nor Committee fees were paid to Executive Directors (Baocai Zhang or Boyun Xu) as the responsibilities of Committee
membership are considered in determining the remuneration provided as part of their normal employment conditions.
TABLE 12: Board and Committee fees
2017
$
Board Fees per annum (including any superannuation)
Chairman of the Board
Not applicable
Co-Vice Chairman of the Board
115,000A
Director
150,000B
Committee Fees per annum (including any superannuation)
Audit and Risk Management Committee – Chair
30,000
Audit and Risk Management Committee – member
15,000
Health, Safety and Environment Committee – Chair
30,000
Health, Safety and Environment Committee – member
15,000
Nomination and Remuneration Committee – Chair
Not applicable
Nomination and Remuneration Committee – member
Not applicable
Strategy and Development Committee – Chair
Not applicable
Strategy and Development Committee – member
15,000
A	 Not paid to Yanzhou appointed Co-Vice Chairman
B	 Other than as noted in Table 13
Transaction specific remuneration
In 2017 the Company made total payments of $622,170 ($70,055 in 2016) for the extra services provided by the Non-Executive Directors
Gregory Fletcher, Geoffrey Raby, Huaqiao Zhang and Vincent O’Rourke for their contribution to undertake investigations and discussions on
behalf of the Company to consider the acquisition from Rio Tinto of the remaining Coal & Allied coal assets held by Rio Tinto being, principally,
Rio Tinto’s interest in the Hunter Valley Operations mine and the Mount Thorley Warkworth mines.
Details of remuneration for all Non-Executive Directors are set out in Table 13 (see Section 6: Remuneration tables).
Table 13 sets out the details of remuneration (in the form of Board and Committee fees and other benefits) earned by Non-Executive Directors,
calculated in accordance with applicable Accounting Standards.