NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017
110      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
C11 ASSET CLASSIFIED AS HELD FOR SALE
Accounting Policies
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale or
loss of control transaction rather than through continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the asset (or disposal group) is
available for immediate sale or disposal in its present condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for sales or disposals of
such assets (or disposal group) and the transaction is highly probable. Management must be committed to the transaction, which should be
expected to qualify for recognition as a completed transaction within one year from the date of classification.
When the Group is committed to a sale plan or other transaction involving loss of control of a subsidiary, all of the assets and liabilities of
that subsidiary are classified as held for sale when the criteria described above are met, regardless of whether the Group will retain a non-
controlling interest in its former subsidiary after the sale.
Non-current assets (and disposal groups) classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of their previous carrying amount and fair
value less costs to sell.
31 December
2017
$M
31 December
2016
$M
Current assets
Investment in associate (i)
25
–
Interest in joint ventures (ii)
531
–
Land held for sale (iii)
57
Total current assets
613
–
Current liabilities
Interest in joint ventures (ii)
67
–
Total current liabilities
67
–
(i) Investment in associate
The investment in associate was included in the asset sale agreement with Glencore as disclosed further in Note E1. An indirect interest in
Port Waratah Coal Services Pty Ltd of 6.5%, held via shares in Newcastle Coal Shippers Pty Ltd, will be sold for US$20m and is expected to
complete in 2018.
(ii) Interest in joint ventures
On 27 July 2017 the Company announced that it has entered into a binding agreement to establish a 51:49 unincorporated joint venture with
Glencore in relation to HVO, following completion of the Group’s acquisition of Coal & Allied from Rio Tinto. Glencore will pay cash consideration
of US$429 million to the Group for a 16.6% interest in HVO, and this amount is reduced by the net cash flows generated by the 16.6% HVO
interest from 1 September 2017 to the date of completion. The consideration will also include a 27.9% share of US$240 million of non-
contingent royalties and 49% of HVO contingent royalties payable by the Group and a net debt and working capital adjustment in respect of the
Coal & Allied acquisition. The US$429 million includes US$20 million associated with the sale of shares in Newcastle Coal Shippers Pty Ltd held
by Coal & Allied to Glencore noted above.
(iii) Land held for sale
The land held for sale refers to parcels of non-mining land located in the Lower Hunter Valley that is held for development or future sale.
As disclosed in Note E1 these were acquired as part of the acquisition of Coal & Allied at fair value.
Summarised financial information
The following table provides summarised financial information for the interest in HVO that are held for sale as at 31 December 2017.
The information disclosed reflects the interest in HVO share of the Group’s aggregated assets and liabilities.
31 December
2017
$M
Current assets
13
Property, plant and equipment
185
Mining tenements
311
Other non-current assets
22
Non-current assets
518
Total assets classified as held for sale
531
Current liabilities
38
Non-current liabilities
29
Total liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale
67
Net assets classified as held for sale
464
C – OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES