CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
72      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
The committee consists only of Non-Executive Directors
with a majority being independent. Consistent with the ASX
Recommendations, the chair of the committee is an independent
Non-Executive Director and is not the Chairman of the Board. The
qualifications, skills and experience of each member is disclosed in
the Information on directors in the Directors’ Report, on page 45.
The Company has also employed a full time EGM of Risk
Management and Auditing. His role is described further under
Principle 7.
CEO and CFO certifications on financial reports
The CEO and CFO have declared in writing to the Board that in
respect of the half year ended 30 June 2017 and the full year
ended 31 December 2017, in their opinion, the financial records
of the Company have been properly maintained and the financial
statements comply with the appropriate accounting standards and
give a true and fair view of the financial position and performance of
the Company, and that their opinion has been formed on the basis
of a sound system of risk management and internal control which is
operating effectively.
External Auditor
The Company’s external auditor is ShineWing Australia. Consistent
with the requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth), ShineWing
Australia has a policy of partner rotation every five years. The
appointment, removal and remuneration (not including amounts paid
for special or additional services provided by the auditor) of the auditor
require shareholder approval.
The external auditor receives all papers and minutes of the Audit
and Risk Management Committee. The external auditor also attends
the Company’s Annual General Meeting to answer questions from
shareholders relevant to the Company’s audit.
Principle 5: Make timely and balanced disclosure
The Company recognises the importance of timely and adequate
disclosure to the market, and is committed to making timely
and balanced disclosure of all material matters and to effective
communication with its shareholders and investors so as to give
them ready access to balanced and understandable information. The
Company also works together with its major shareholder, Yanzhou,
to ensure that Yanzhou can comply with its disclosure obligations in
relation to Company information, and vice versa, Yanzhou seeks to
ensure that the Company can comply with its disclosure obligations in
relation to Yanzhou’s information.
The Board has put in place a Disclosure Policy to encapsulate the
disclosure obligations under the Corporations Act 2001 and the ASX
Listing Rules and to set out procedures for managing compliance
with those obligations. These procedures provide a framework for
managing the disclosure of material matters to the market to ensure
accountability at Board and senior executive level. As part of this
framework, a standing agenda item at all the Company’s Board and
Executive Committee meetings requires the directors and senior
executive to consider whether any matters at the meeting should be
disclosed to the market. The Disclosure Policy can be found within the
Corporate Governance section of the Company’s website.
A Disclosure Committee has been established to assist the Company
to meet its disclosure obligations. The Committee plays a key role
in reviewing and determining whether information is likely to have a
material effect on the price or value of the Company’s securities such
that it requires disclosure to the market. The Disclosure Committee
members comprise the CEC, CEO, CFO, Company Secretary,
Investor Relations General Manager and Group Counsel.
Any information disclosed to the market through an announcement
to the ASX is also published on the Investor section of the
Company’s website.
Principle 6: Respect the rights of shareholders
Communications with shareholders
The Company has an investor relations program that is aimed at
facilitating two-way communications with investors. The Company’s
policy is to promote effective communication with shareholders
and other investors so that they understand how to assess relevant
information about the Company and its corporate direction. The
Company aims to keep shareholders, potential investors and
other stakeholders informed of all major developments affecting
the state of affairs of the Company. The Company communicates
information regularly to shareholders, potential investors and other
stakeholders by:
––
posting announcements on the ASX platform in accordance
with its continuous disclosure obligations and also making these
announcements available on the Company’s website;
––
keeping its website up to date on important information about the
Company, including its Constitution, Board and Board Committee
Charters, core corporate governance policies and financial
information about the Company; and
––
publishing investor presentations made to analysts and
media briefings available within the Investor section of the
Company’s website.
The Company encourages shareholders to attend and participate in
all general meetings including annual general meetings. Shareholders
are entitled to ask questions about the management of the Company
and of the auditor as to its conduct of the audit and preparation of its
reports. Any shareholders who cannot attend any general meetings
can also participate via lodgement of their proxies. In addition,
shareholders have the option of receiving communications from and
sending communications to the Company and the Company’s share
registry, Computershare Investor Services, electronically.
The Company’s Shareholder Communication Policy which was
approved by the Board, can be found within the Corporate
Governance section of the Company’s website.
Principle 7: Recognise and manage risk
Risk identification and management
The Board, through the Audit and Risk Management Committee, is
responsible for satisfying itself that a sound system of risk oversight
and management exists and that internal controls are effective. In
particular, the Board ensures that:
––
the principal strategic, operational, financial reporting and
compliance risks are identified; and
––
systems are in place to assess, manage, monitor and report on
these risks.
The role and membership of the Audit and Risk Management
Committee are described under Principles 2 and 4.
The Company’s Audit and Risk Management Committee Charter
can be found within the Corporate Governance section of the
Company’s website.
The Board has requested the Company’s senior executives
and management to report to the Audit and Risk Management
Committee and, where appropriate the Board, regarding the effective
management of its material business risks.