CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT    ANNUAL REPORT 2017      77
The Company also use contractors and other third parties for
exploration, mining and other services generally, and is reliant on
a number of third parties for the success of its current operations
and for the development of its growth projects. While this is normal
for the mining and exploration industry, problems caused by third
parties may arise which may have an impact on the performance and
operations of the Company. Any failure by counterparties to perform
their obligations may have a material adverse effect on the Company
and there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in
attempting to enforce its contractual rights through legal action.
Competition
The coal industry is highly competitive, and an increase in production
or reduction in prices of competing coal from both Australia and
overseas may adversely impact the Company’s ability to sell its coal
products and the price to be attained for sales. Increased competition
in the future, including from new competitors, may emerge. This
competition may relate not only to coal produced and sold, but
also to competition for the acquisition of new projects, which may
adversely affect the ability of the Company to acquire new interests on
acceptable terms should it wish to make such acquisitions.
Further industry consolidation could result in competitors improving
their scale or productivity or competitors may develop lower-cost
geological coal resources or develop resources in lower cost base
geographies, increasing pressure on the Company’s ability to maintain
its margins.
There is significant competition within the resources industry in
Australia, the United States and Asia. Furthermore, new entrants
to the industry may emerge in one or more of those markets,
increasing the competitive pressure on the Company. This pressure
could adversely affect the Company’s market share and financial
performance and position.
Title risks
Exploring or mining for coal is generally illegal without a tenement
granted by the State Governments. The grant and renewal of
tenements is subject to a regulatory regime and each tenement
is subject to certain conditions. There is no certainty that an
application for grant or renewal of a tenement will be granted at all
or on satisfactory terms or within expected timeframes. Further, the
conditions attached to tenements may change. The permitting rules
are complex and may change over time, making the title holder’s
responsibility to comply with the applicable requirements more
onerous, more costly or even impossible, thereby precluding or
impairing continuing or future mining operations. There is a risk that
the Company may lose title to any of its granted titles if it is unable
to comply with conditions or if the land subject to the title is required
for public purposes. There is also a risk that a tenement may not
be granted from any applications for renewals of tenements or for
new tenements.
Obtaining mining tenements often involves first obtaining consents
from landholders and other third parties, some of which may in
certain circumstances have a right of veto, as well as approvals
(such as environmental approvals). There is a risk that the requisite
consents and approvals may not be able to be obtained on time
or on acceptable commercial terms, or may not be able to be
obtained at all, and consequently have an adverse financial effect on
the Company.
Native Title
Where the grant or renewal of a tenement is in respect of land in
relation to which native title may exist, the Company will need to
comply with the NTA in order for the tenement to be validly granted.
Compliance with the NTA (and the relevant native title process to
be followed for the grant of the tenement e.g. the right to negotiate
process) may be prolonged or delayed, and substantial compensation
may be payable as part of any agreement reached, including for
the extinguishment or impairment of the relevant native title rights
and interests.
The existence or determination of native title may, therefore, affect the
existing or future activities of the Company and impact on its ability
to develop projects which may in turn impact its operational and
financial performance.
Overlapping tenement risks
Some of the Company’s mines and associated tenements adjoin or
are overlapped by petroleum tenements and adjoin other exploration
interests held by third parties. Overlapping tenements could potentially
prevent, delay or increase the cost of the future development of
the Company’s projects because the Company and the relevant
petroleum exploration licence or other exploration licence holders
could potentially seek to undertake their respective activities on the
overlapping area or the same resource seams and in some cases the
overlapping petroleum tenure holder’s consent may be required.
There is no guarantee that agreement will be reached with the
overlapping petroleum tenement holder or that agreement will not
be delayed or will be reached on terms satisfactory to the Company.
There is also a risk that if agreement cannot be reached with
overlapping tenement holders the matter may be referred to the
relevant minister or a court who may make a decision which adversely
impacts upon or prevents the project proposed by the Company.
Enforcement and counterparty insolvency risks
The Company has entered into contracts which are important to the
future of its businesses including (but not limited to) for the provision of
coal handling services, long term sales contracts, debt facilities, long
term leases, contract mining and the provision of certain guarantees,
indemnities and sureties.
Any failure by counterparties to perform those contracts may
have a material adverse effect on the Company and there can be
no assurance that it would be successful in enforcing any of its
contractual rights through legal action.
In addition, any insolvency of a counterparty to any of these contracts
may have a material adverse effect on the Company and there can
be no assurance that it would be successful in enforcing any of its
contractual rights through legal action or recovering all monies owned
by that counterparty (including under any claim for damages).
Coal royalties
Royalties are payable to the NSW and QLD state governments
on coal produced in NSW and QLD. In both states, the royalties
are payable on an ad valorem basis as they are calculated as a
percentage of the value for which the coal is sold. The relevant
State Governments may increase these royalties or their method of
calculation. Any impost of new royalty related state tax or increase in
royalty rates may have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial
position and/or financial performance.