CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT    ANNUAL REPORT 2017      71
Board skills matrix
The table below sets out the skills and experience that are currently
represented on the Board.
Skills and Experiences
Total
Mining/exploration and production
5
Engineering
5
Capital projects
9
Trading/marketing
4
Strategy
11
Leadership
11
Board/Committee experience
9
Corporate governance
8
Accounting/audit/risk management
7
Government/policy
9
Legal/regulatory
5
Health, safety and environment
7
Human resources
6
International business expertise
10
Induction and professional development
Upon appointment, directors are provided with an information
pack containing a letter of appointment setting out the Company’s
expectations, directors’ duties and the terms and conditions of their
appointment, and other materials containing information about the
Company including the Company’s Constitution, charters and policies
to support the induction of directors to the Board.
Directors also participate in continuing education or development
programs arranged for them, including for example training on
director’s duties and developments in workplace health and
safety law.
The Company Secretary supports directors by providing access to
information in appropriate form where requested.
Principle 3: Act ethically and responsibly
Conduct and ethics
The Board policy is that directors, employees and contractors must
observe both the letter and spirit of the law, and adhere to the
highest standards of business conduct. The Company has adopted a
formal Code of Conduct and other guidelines and policies which are
approved by the Board that set out legal and ethical standards for the
Company’s directors and employees, including a Conflicts of Interests
and Related Party Transactions Policy.
The Code of Conduct and these other guidelines and policies guide
the directors, the CEO, senior executives, and employees generally as
to the practices necessary to maintain confidence in the Company’s
integrity and as to the responsibility and accountability of individuals
for reporting, and investigating reports of, unethical practices.
The Code of Conduct and these other guidelines and policies also
guide compliance with legal and other obligations to stakeholders.
Specifically, the objective of the Code of Conduct is to:
––
provide a benchmark for professional behaviour;
––
support the Company’s business reputation and corporate image
within the community; and
––
make directors and employees aware of the consequences if they
breach the policy.
The key values underpinning the Code of Conduct are:
––
our actions must be governed by the highest standards of integrity
and fairness;
––
our decisions must be made in accordance with the letter and
spirit of applicable law; and
––
our business must be conducted honestly and ethically, with
our best skills and judgement, and for the benefit of customers,
employees, shareholders and the Company alike.
The Code of Conduct is available in the Corporate Governance
section of the Company’s website.
Reporting concerns and whistleblower protection
The Company’s Speak-Up Yancoal Ethics policy encourages
employees, directors, contractors and consultants to raise serious
concerns within the Company and report any issues if they genuinely
believe a person has, or persons have, breached Yancoal’s Code of
Conduct, policies or the law. The policy also protects individuals who
in good faith report misconduct which they reasonably believe to be
corrupt, illegal or unethical on a confidential basis, without fear of
reprisal, dismissal or discriminatory treatment; and assists in ensuring
that matters of misconduct and/or unethical behaviour are identified
and dealt with appropriately.
Individuals can report their concerns confidentially online, via
confidential email to an external facilitator or by telephoning a
confidential Speak Up Line.
All disclosures made under this policy will be treated seriously and be
the subject of a thorough investigation with the objective of locating
evidence that either substantiates or refutes the misconduct disclosed
by an employee. Such investigations will be facilitated independently
from the business unit concerned, the employee who made the
disclosure or any person being the subject of the reportable conduct.
The Company will determine, based on the seriousness of the
disclosure, whether the investigation will be conducted internally by a
senior member of management or the external facilitator.
Principle 4: Safeguard integrity in corporate reporting
Audit and Risk Management Committee
The Board has established an Audit and Risk Management
Committee. The committee plays a key role in helping the Board to
oversee financial reporting, internal control structure, risk management
systems and internal and external audit functions. The committee has
the necessary power and resources to meet its responsibilities under
its charter, including rights of access to management and auditors
(internal and external) and to seek explanations and additional
information. The committee meets at least four times per year, or as
frequently as required. The Charter of the Audit and Risk Management
Committee can be found in the Corporate Governance section of the
Company’s website. The purpose of the Audit and Risk Management
Committee is outlined under the Board committees section above.
In accordance with its Charter, the Audit and Risk Management
Committee has at least three members. The current members of this
committee are Gregory Fletcher (chair of the committee), Qingchun
Zhao (appointed 17 May 2017) and Geoffrey Raby. Former Committee
member Yuxiang Wu resigned on 28 April 2017 meaning that for a
brief period, until Qingchun Zhao was appointed to the Committee by
way of a circular resolution of the Board, the Committee had only two
members. The Committee did not meet during this time and Qingchun
Zhao was appointed at the first available opportunity.