FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      ANNUAL REPORT 2017      103
The key assumptions in the model include:
Key assumptions
Description
Coal prices
The Group’s cash flow forecasts are based on estimates of future coal prices, which assume benchmark prices
will revert to the Group’s assessment of the long term real coal prices of USD 65 – USD 101 per tonne (2016:
USD 66 – USD 100 per tonne) for thermal and USD 110 – USD 190 per tonne (2016: USD 104 – USD 165 per
tonne) for metallurgical coal.
The Group receives long term forecast coal price data from multiple external sources when determining its
benchmark coal price forecasts and then makes adjustments for specific coal qualities.
For both thermal and metallurgical coal the Group’s forecast coal price is within the range of external
price forecasts.
Foreign exchange rates
The long term AUD/USD forecast exchange rate of $0.75 (2016: $0.73) is based on external sources. The year-
end AUD/USD exchange rate was $0.78 per the Reserve Bank of Australia.
Production and capital costs
Production and capital costs are based on the Group’s estimate of forecast geological conditions, stage of
existing plant and equipment and future production levels.
This information is obtained from internally maintained budgets, the five year business plan, life of mine models,
life of mine plans, JORC reports, and project evaluations performed by the Group in its ordinary course
of business.
Coal reserves and resources
See discussion at Note C2 Mining tenements for how the coal reserves and resources are determined.
Discount rate
The Group has applied a post-tax discount rate of 10.5% (2016: 10.5%) to discount the forecast future
attributable post-tax cash flows.
The post-tax discount rate applied to the future cash flow forecasts represents an estimate of the rate the
market would apply having regard to the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the
future cash flow estimates have not been adjusted.
This rate is also consistent with the Group’s five year business plan, life of mine models and project evaluations
performed in ordinary course of business.
Based on the above assumptions at 31 December 2017 the recoverable amount is determined to be above book value for all CGUs resulting in
no further impairment.
At 31 December 2017, the remaining impairment provision at Moolarben of $100 million has been reversed. Management have assessed the
following as being reasons for the reversal:
––
both the NSW CGU and Moolarben standalone recoverable amounts are above book value;
––
completion of open-cut expansions and commencement of underground mining operations during 2017 have derisked future cash flows and
increased production from 8Mt in 2014 to approximately 17Mt of ROM coal; and
––
current and life of mine operating costs and capital expenditure have decreased.
The impairment reversal has been recognised through the profit and loss.
Impairment provision recorded as at 31 December 2017 is $73 million for Stratford and Duralie. Stratford and Duralie is included in the NSW
region CGU. Management may consider reversals of the impairment provision previously recognised if there is either an increase in the average
long term real revenue over the life of the mine due to either an increase in USD coal prices, or a further weakening of the AUD/USD foreign
exchange rate or a combination of both, or further reductions in the current and life of mine operating costs, capital expenditure requirements, or
an increase in the reserves.
In determining the value assigned to each key assumption, management has used: external sources of information; the expertise of external
consultants; as well as the experience of experts within the Group to validate entity specific assumptions such as coal reserves and resources.
Additionally various sensitivities have been determined and considered with respect to each of the key assumptions, further supporting the
above fair value conclusions.
(c) Key sensitivity
The most sensitive input in the fair value model is forecast revenue, which is primarily dependent on estimated future coal prices and the AUD/
USD forecast exchange rate.
If coal prices were -10% LOM the recoverable amount would exceed book value for all CGUs with the exception of Yarrabee who exceeded the
recoverable amount by $15 million. If the AUD/USD long term forecast exchange rate was $0.80 the recoverable amount would exceed book
value for all CGUs.
Goodwill
The Yarrabee goodwill was not subject to an impairment charge as the recoverable amount is greater than the carrying value for this CGU.