CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
74      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
Operating risks
The Company’s operations are subject to operating risks that
could result in decreased coal production which could reduce their
respective revenues. Operational difficulties may impact the amount
of coal produced, delay coal deliveries or increase the cost of mining
for a varying length of time. These operating risks include (but are
not limited to) industrial, mine collapses, cave-ins or other failures
relating to mine infrastructure, including tailings dams, interruptions
due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions, power interruption,
critical equipment failure (in particular any protracted breakdown
or issues with any of the Company’s CHPP or a major excavator),
fires, and explosions from methane gas or coal dust, accidental
mine water discharges, flooding and variations in or unusual or
unexpected geological or geotechnical mining conditions (particularly
in the Company’s underground operations). Such risks could result
in damage to applicable mines, personal injury, environmental
damage, delays in coal production, decreased coal production, loss
of revenue, monetary losses and possible legal liability. Although the
Company’s insurance policies provide coverage for some of these
risks, the amount and scope of insurance cover is limited by market
and economic factors and there can be no assurance that these risks
would be fully covered by insurances maintained by the Company.
Injury or accident risks
If any injuries or accidents occur in a mine, this could have adverse
financial implications including legal claims for personal injury, wrongful
death, amendments to approvals, potential production delays or
stoppages, any of which may have a material adverse effect on the
financial performance and/or financial position of the Company.
Funding risks
The amount of future funding required by the Company will depend
on a number of factors, including the performance of the Company’s
business at that time. The Company’s business operations and
cashflow are highly sensitive to any fluctuation in the US$ coal price,
coal production from its operations, demand for its coal product and
US$ movement in foreign exchange rates, particularly movements in
the A$:US$ exchange rate.
In developing its business plan and operating budget, the Company
has made certain assumptions regarding coal prices, the A$:US$
exchange rate, future production levels and other factors which
determine the Company’s financial performance.
If a funding shortfall materialises, the Company may need to raise
substantial additional debt or equity. The Company’s capacity to
secure the requisite level of funding will depend on the amount
of funding required, the performance and future prospects of its
business and a number of other factors, including US$ coal prices,
interest rates, economic conditions, debt market conditions, equity
market conditions, and future levels of Yanzhou support.
To the extent that the Company is not able to secure additional
financing (whether debt or equity) on acceptable terms from third
parties, the Company will continue to rely on financial support
from Yanzhou.
As at 31 December 2017, the Company had a loan receivable from
Watagan of A$712 million (re-drawable up to A$1.36 billion) which
is subject to impairment testing. There is a guarantee provided
by Yankuang (being the ultimate parent entity of the Company) to
indemnify the Company for any amounts due and payable under the
loan which are not paid by Watagan.
Yanzhou’s and Yankuang’s capacity to meet their respective funding
commitments will depend on their financial position at the time and
their capacity to raise the necessary funds to meet the commitments.
Yancoal’s capacity to source further funding from Yanzhou will depend
on Yanzhou’s willingness and financial capacity to provide that
funding. There can be no assurance that Yanzhou will be in a position
to provide financial support to Yancoal or that Yankuang will be in a
position to meet its obligations under the guarantee in respect of the
Watagan Agreements.
Adverse foreign exchange rate movements
Foreign exchange risk is the risk of the Company sustaining loss
through adverse movements in exchange rates.
Such losses can impact the Company’s financial position and
performance and the level of additional funding required to support
the Company’s businesses.
The liabilities, earnings and cash flows of the Company are influenced
by movements in exchange rates, especially movements in the
A$:US$ exchange rate.
While the Company operates entirely in Australia and its costs
are primarily denominated in its functional currency, the A$,
foreign currency exposure arises particularly in relation to coal
supply contracts, which generally are priced and payable in US$,
procurement of imported plant and equipment, which can be priced in
US$ or other foreign currencies, and debt denominated in US$.
The impact of exchange rate movements will vary depending
on factors such as the nature, magnitude and duration of the
movements, the extent to which currency risk is hedged under
forward exchange contracts or other hedging instruments and the
terms of these contracts.
The hedging policy of the Company aims to protect against
the volatility of cash expenditures or reduced collection in the
abovementioned transactions as well as to reduce the volatility of
profit or loss for retranslation of US dollar denominated loans at each
period end.
Hedging through bank issued instruments
Operating foreign exchange risk that arises from firm commitments
or highly probable transactions is managed through the use of bank
issued forward foreign currency contracts and collar option contracts.
The Company hedges a portion of contracted US dollar sales and
asset purchases settled in foreign currencies in each currency to
mitigate the adverse impact on cash flow due to the future rise or fall
in Australian dollars against the relevant currencies.
Coal prices and coal demand risk
The Company generates revenue from the sale of coal. In developing
its business plan and operating budget, the Company makes certain
assumptions regarding coal prices and demand for coal. The prices
which the Company will receive for its coal depend on numerous
market factors beyond its control and, accordingly, some underlying
coal price assumptions relied on by the Company may materially
change and actual coal prices and demand may differ materially from
those expected.
The prices for coal are determined predominantly by world markets,
which are affected by numerous factors, including the outcome of
future sale contract negotiations, general economic activity, industrial
production levels, changes in foreign exchange rates, changes in
energy demand and demand for steel, changes in the supply of
seaborne coal, technological changes, changes in production levels