INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (CONTINUED)
150      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
150
Key Audit Matter
How the matter was addressed during the audit
The control assessment under the accounting standards
requires a high degree of judgement. If Watagan is
controlled by the Group, there would need to be a
significant change to the financial statements to reflect
the consolidation of the assets and liabilities of the
mines owned by Watagan.
• Reviewing the disclosures associated with Watagan in
the financial statements.
Other information
The directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information in the
Group’s annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017, but does not include the financial report and our
auditor’s report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial report does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance
conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial report, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so,
consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial report or our knowledge obtained
in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information;
we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Report
The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of the financial report that gives a true and fair view
in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards and the Corporations Act 2001 and for such internal control as
the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial report that gives a true and fair view
and is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial report, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going
concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting
unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to
do so.
The directors are responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process. In Note A(i), the directors also
state, in accordance with Accounting Standard AASB 101 Presentation of Financial Statements, that the financial
statements comply with International Financial Reporting Standards.
Auditor’s responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Report
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial report based on our audit. Our objectives are to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial report as a whole is free from material misstatement, whether due
to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of
assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards will
always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions
of users taken on the basis of this financial report.
As part of an audit in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards, we exercise professional judgement and
maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: