CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
66      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
In identifying candidates, the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee will consider and select nominees by reference to
a number of selection criteria including the skills, expertise and
background that add to and complement the range of skills, expertise
and background of the existing directors, the capability of the
candidate to devote the necessary time and commitment to the role,
potential conflicts of interest and independence, and the extent to
which the candidate would fill a present need on the Board. Where
appropriate, appropriate checks are undertaken prior to a director
being appointed. The mix of skills currently held by the Board is set
out under Principle 2.
The role, rights and responsibilities and membership requirements
of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, together with
the selection criteria for candidates for the Board are set out in
the Nomination and Remuneration Committee Charter which
can be found within the Corporate Governance section of the
Company’s website.
Shareholder approval is required for the appointment of directors.
However, directors may appoint other directors to fill a casual vacancy
where the number of directors falls below the constitutional minimum
number of directors and in order to comply with any applicable laws,
regulations or the ASX Listing Rules. If a director is appointed to fill
a casual vacancy in these circumstances, the approval of members
must be sought at the next general meeting.
No director may hold office without re-election beyond the third
annual general meeting (AGM) following the meeting at which the
director was last elected or re-elected. The Company provides all
material information in its possession in relation to directors standing
for election or re-election in the Notice of Meeting provided to
shareholders prior to the AGM.
To the extent that the ASX Listing Rules require an election of directors
to be held and no director would otherwise be required under the
Company’s Constitution to submit for election or re-election at an
AGM, the director who has been the longest in office since their last
election or appointment must retire at the AGM. As between directors
who were last elected or appointed on the same day, where it is not
agreed between the relevant directors, the director to retire must be
decided by lot.
The process for appointment, retirement and re-election of directors is
set out in the Company’s Constitution which can be found within the
Corporate Governance section of the Company’s website.
Diversity
The Company recognises that people are its most important asset
and is committed to the maintenance and promotion of workplace
diversity. The Company has adopted a Diversity Policy, approved
by the Board, to actively facilitate a more diverse and representative
management and leadership structure. The Diversity Policy is available
in the Corporate Governance section of the Company’s website.
Annually, the Board establishes measurable objectives with the
assistance of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee with a
view to progressing towards a balanced representation of women at a
Board and senior management level.
The measurable objectives and performance against them are
reviewed annually by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee
as part of its annual review of the effectiveness of the Diversity Policy.
The measurable objectives adopted for 2017 and the Company’s
performance against the measurable objectives are outlined in the
table below:
Objective
Performance
1.	 To increase
employee awareness
and understanding
of the importance
of diversity by
implementing training
on the Company’s
Diversity Policy
and Workplace
Behaviour & Anti-
Discrimination Policy.
The Yancoal Code of Conduct is currently
under review and a new version is
expected to be approved in 2018.
Once finalised, the policy will be rolled out
across the Company. Employees across
the Employees across the Company have
access to the current version of Yancoal
Code of Conduct via the Company
intranet and are reminded of this via
inductions, crew talks and as relevant
issues arise.
2.	 To target a diverse
group of candidates
with recruitment and
selection procedures
that are merit-
based and non-
discriminatory.
Across the Yancoal group, merit-
based, non-discriminatory practices are
adhered to.
3.	 Continue to ensure
our managers are
adept recruiters,
retainers and
motivators of our
diverse workplace.
A human resources representative
endeavours to sit with managers during
interviews to coach and mentor on
targeted selection techniques and
merit-based selection, as well as
general diversity awareness with regards
to candidates.
The “Yancoal Way”, continues to roll
out across the Company. The message
of continuous improvement and ‘blue
bus’ thinking is promoted during
recruitment, induction and performance
reviews to promote a culture that
encourages engagement, diversity and
continuous learning.
Continued to build a culture of diversity
and inclusion through targeted education
of managers on the positive impact of a
diverse workforce and the importance of
adhering to the Company recruitment and
diversity policies.
4.	 Communicate
the Company
Recruitment Policy
A human resources representative
communicates the Recruitment Policy
to managers and candidates during
interviews and the policy is also published
on the Company’s intranet.