CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT    ANNUAL REPORT 2017      81
to assist with the evaluation of remuneration structures for Non-
Executive Directors, Executive Directors and senior management.
The committee has the necessary power and resources to meet
its responsibilities under its charter, including rights of access to
management, auditors and external advisers. It is intended that
the committee will meet at least once per year, or as frequently
as required.
Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors
The Constitution provides that the Non-Executive Directors are
entitled to such remuneration as approved by the Company’s
shareholders in accordance with the Constitution, which must not
exceed the aggregate annual amount as determined by the Company
in general meeting or by its major shareholder, Yanzhou.
Remuneration for Non-Executive Directors is capped at an aggregate
amount for each financial year of $3.5 million. Non-Executive
Directors may also be paid such additional or special remuneration
as the directors decide is appropriate where a Non-Executive
Director performs extra services or makes special exertions for
the benefit of the Company. Such additional remuneration will not
form part of the calculation of the aggregate cap on Non-Executive
Directors’ remuneration for a financial year and do not require
shareholder approval.
Further details of the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors,
executive directors and senior executives can be found in the
Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 63.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee Charter can be found
within the Corporate Governance section of the Company’s website.
Dealings in Company securities
By law, and under the Company’s Insider Trading Policy, dealing in
Company securities is subject to the overriding prohibition on trading
while in possession of inside information.
In addition, the Company’s Share Trading Policy prohibits dealing
in Company securities or Yanzhou securities by directors, senior
executives and other relevant employees, as well as their closely
related parties, during specified blackout periods each year. General
employees are permitted to deal in Company securities outside these
blackout periods, however additional approval requirements apply
to directors, the CEO and CFO. The Share Trading Policy precludes
relevant employees from entering into any hedge or derivative
transactions relating to unvested options or share rights granted to
them under incentive plans and securities that are subject to holding
locks or restrictions on dealing under such plans. There are also
restrictions that apply to relevant employees from entering into margin
lending arrangements and short-term trading of the Company’s
securities. Breaches of the policy are treated seriously and may lead
to disciplinary action, including dismissal.
Copies of the Company’s Share Trading Policy and Insider Trading
Policy are available on the Corporate Governance section of the
Company’s website.
This Director independence
This has been approved by the Board and is current as at
28 February 2018.