CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT    ANNUAL REPORT 2017      75
and events interfering with supply, changes in international freight
rates or other transportation infrastructure and costs, the costs of
other commodities and substitutes for coal, market changes in coal
quality requirements, government regulations which restrict use of
coal, and tax impositions on the resources industry, all of which are
outside the control of the Company and may have a material adverse
impact on coal prices and demand.
In addition, the coal price is highly dependent on the outlook for coal
consumption in large Asian economies, such as China, Japan and
India, as well as any changes in government policy regarding coal or
energy policy in those countries.
Absent offsetting factors, significant and sustained adverse
movements in demand for coal and, consequently, coal prices (both
generally and in relation to particular types and classes of coal) may
have a material adverse impact on the ongoing financial performance
and financial position of the Company or may result in the Company
not proceeding with the development of new mines and projects due
to such development not being economically viable.
Any weakening in coal prices or any deterioration prompted by further
reduction in demand or addition of new tonnes to the seaborne
market (for example from thermal coal exports from the US) would
have a material adverse impact on the financial performance of the
Company and its capacity to undertake development projects.
Coal production risks
Improvement in the Company’s financial performance is dependent
on the Company being able to sustain or increase coal production
and decrease operating costs on a per tonne basis. The Company’s
success or failure in improving productivity will become particularly
important to the Company’s financial performance if the coal price
remains at current levels or falls further.
The Company’s coal production can be impacted by a number
of factors, including unforeseen geological or geotechnical issues
(particularly in the Company’s underground operations), abnormal
wet weather conditions (particularly in Queensland), unforeseen
delays or complexities in installing and operating mining longwall
systems, protracted breakdown of coal handling infrastructure and
other mining equipment and rail and port breakdowns and outages.
Regulatory factors and the occurrence of other operating risks can
also limit production.
Debt Costs
The majority of the Company’s loans are US$ LIBOR based
floating rate loans and currently there are no interest rate hedging
arrangements in place. As a result, any increase in the US$ LIBOR
from current levels will expose the Company to higher debt costs.
Taxation Risks
In addition to the corporate income tax imposed on the Company,
the Company is required to pay government royalties, direct and
indirect taxes and other imposts in the jurisdictions in which the
Company will operate. The Company may be affected by changes
in government taxation and royalty policies or in the interpretation or
application of such policies under Australian laws.
The potential of the Company to obtain the benefit of existing
tax losses and claim other tax attributes will depend on future
circumstances and may be affected by changes in ownership of
both Yanzhou and Yancoal, business activities, thin capitalisation
thresholds, tax bases and any other conditions relating to the use
of tax losses or other attributes of the group. The ability to use the
Company’s carried forward losses will depend on the Company’s
continued satisfaction of the loss recoupment tests under Australian
tax laws and be subject to the availability of sufficient future
taxable profits.
Australian Accounting Standards (AAS)
AAS are issued by the AASB and are beyond the control of
the Company and the Directors. Any changes to AAS or to the
interpretation of those standards may have an adverse effect on the
reported financial performance or financial position of the Company.
In particular, the accounting treatment for transactions such as
the transfer of the NSW mining assets of Ashton, Austar and
Donaldson to Watagan could be reviewed by standard setters
and may be subject to change. In the event that the Company is
required to reconsolidate Watagan’s results and financial position
into its consolidated financial statements ahead of the scheduled
date in 2025, due to a change to AAS or their interpretation, the
reconsolidation may have an adverse effect on the reported financial
performance or financial position of the Company.
Regulatory approvals risks
The ability of the Company to meet its long term production target
profile depends on (amongst other things) the Company being able
to obtain on a timely basis, and maintain, all necessary regulatory
approvals (including any approvals arising under applicable mining
laws, environmental regulations and other laws) for its current
operations and expansion and growth projects, including obtaining
planning approvals, land access, land owner consents and addressing
any native title issues, impacts on the environment and objections
from local communities.
The requirement to obtain approvals and to address potential and
actual issues for existing and future mining projects is common to
all companies in the coal sector. However, there is no assurance
or guarantee that the Company will be in a position to secure any
or all of the required consents, approvals and rights necessary to
maintain its current production profile from its existing operations or to
develop its growth projects in a manner which will result in profitable
mining operations and the achievement of its long term production
targets. If these approvals (or other approvals required for the planned
production increases) are not obtained, or if conditional or limited
approvals are obtained, the economic viability of the relevant projects
may be adversely affected, which may in turn result in the value of the
relevant assets being impaired.
The Company continues to engage openly and transparently with all
State and federal Government and approval bodies, while operating
to the highest safety, environmental and legislative standards to work
towards facilitating all approvals in a timely manner.
Estimates of Resources and Reserves and geology
The volume and quality of the coal that the Company recovers may
be less than the Resource and Reserve estimates reported to date.
Resource and Reserve estimates are expressions of judgment based
on knowledge, experience and industry practice. There are risks
associated with such estimates, including that coal mined may be of
a different quality or grade, tonnage or strip ratio from those in the
estimates and the ability to economically extract and process the coal
may not eventuate. Resource and Reserve estimates are necessarily
imprecise and depend to some extent on interpretations and
geological assumptions, coal prices, cost assumptions, and statistical
inferences which may ultimately prove to have been unreliable.