The expansion of our open cut portfolio at
a time of sustained market price improvements
has enabled Yancoal to achieve significant
production gains well beyond our pre-
acquisition performance.
WORKING TOGETHER
Only three years ago Yancoal was operating
in a deflated and disappointing resources
market, restructuring our operations
and managing costs to ensure we were
ready for an eventual upturn.
As prices improved throughout the past year,
we have held true to our promises to continue
to invest into the Australian resources sector,
employ from the areas in which we operate,
and remain absolutely committed to operating
safely and transparently.
Our transformative acquisition has required
a whole-of-business commitment and
its successful completion is of credit to our
people and their ability to anticipate, respond
and recalibrate to market forces and
operational demands.
Together, we have secured Yancoal’s future as
Australia’s largest pure-play coal producer, with
majority interests in two of the country’s leading
tier-one large-scale, long-life and low-cost open
cut coal mines, adding to the strength of our
established tier-one Moolarben complex.
SAFETY
As we have increased in scale, we have
remained focused on ensuring the safety of our
people. Remaining ever vigilant in ensuring we
are providing a safe workplace for the more than
5,000 people directly responsible for helping
Yancoal achieve its ongoing market success.
To support this commitment, we continue to
implement safety training and incident response
practices across each of our operations,
including the 2017 introduction of a Critical
Controls initiative to identify and mitigate against
significant on-site risks.
Only through continued training, education
and awareness can we help to ensure each
of our people returns home safely. There are
no shortcuts to safety and it is the responsibility
of every person within our business to be
watching out for themselves and those working
alongside them.
We must never compromise on safety.
TRANSFORMATION
With our management and operational
teams successfully integrating the Mount
Thorley Warkworth and Hunter Valley
Operations assets into our business from
day one, we have immediately benefitted
from operational synergies and the creation
of new marketing opportunities.
The Company’s balance sheet strengthened
via increased cashflows from a full fourth
quarter’s contribution of attributable new coal
product sales.
Sales volumes for the fourth quarter reporting
period were up 83 percent on the year prior;
including 3.45 million tonnes, a 56 percent
contribution to the year-on-year increase,
from Hunter Valley Operations and Mount
Thorley Warkworth.
OPERATIONS
During the year, we achieved a series of
key milestones essential to the next stage
of Yancoal’s continued growth, both organic
and via strategic acquisition.
Of specific note, we completed the
commissioning of the Moolarben Stage Two
underground mine ahead of time and below
budget, commencing longwall production
in October.
The completion of the Stage Two expansion,
consisting of two open cut pits and the
new underground, has now established the
Moolarben complex as a leading operation
in New South Wales, benefitting from fleet
efficiencies introduced in the year prior and
achieving superior extraction rates both
above and below ground.
Simultaneously, we have also maintained
the necessary operational flexibility and
discipline required to adapt the mine plans
of our Stratford Duralie and Yarrabee open
cuts throughout the year to successfully
improve extraction rates, reduce costs
and more efficiently meet changing global
market demands.
COMMUNITY
Employing the majority of our people from the
areas in which we operate, and relying on local
contractors and service providers to support
our operations, we remain ever mindful of our
responsibilities across regional Australia.
It is up to each of our operations to keep our
local communities engaged and informed.
Operating to the highest environmental and
safety standards, while communicating openly
and transparently. We cannot continue to grow
unless our local stakeholders are considered
in our decision-making.
We must also continue to play an important
role in financially contributing to local and
regional employment, training, health and
education initiatives we believe capable of
making a positive difference.
Within the past year we have contributed
more than $1.3m to community-focused
initiatives via our Community Support
Program and I look forward to our new
operations playing a major role in supporting
and establishing viable and sustainable
regional programs.
THE YEAR AHEAD
Renewed global demand for high quality
coal, buoyed by improved coal prices will
continue to strengthen Yancoal’s performance
as we progress the development of our
open cut operations and continue to pursue
new marketing and blending opportunities.
Moving forward, we are well advanced in
our preparations for the eventual
implementation of our joint venture with
Glencore at Hunter Valley Operations,
subject to final approvals.
The joint venture will ultimately provide
Hunter Valley Operations with the opportunity
to benefit from substantial synergies from
Glencore’s adjoining operations and both
parties look forward to working together to
drive new market growth.
Via the transaction we have also attained a
36.5% share of ownership of Port Waratah
Coal Services Limited.
AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST PURE-PLAY
COAL PRODUCER
We are now an established leader within the
Australian resources sector and have clearly
demonstrated we have the capabilities,
experience and initiative to exceed
expectations within the global marketplace.
This is a new day, a new opportunity and I
would like to thank the Yancoal team and our
shareholders for their continuing contribution
to our growth and success.
Looking ahead, there is still much to achieve.
31.5Mt
UP FROM 19.8Mt
SALEABLE COAL PRODUCTION
FOR 2017 (100% BASIS)
ANNUAL REPORT 2017         13