DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
46      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
Baocai Zhang (continued)
Other current key directorships
Director of Yankuang Group Company Limited
Director of Yanzhou Coal Yulin Neng Hua Co., Ltd
Director of Inner Mongolia Haosheng Coal Mining Limited
Director of Yankuang Group Finance Co., Ltd6
Director of Yancoal SCN Limited
Former directorships in last three years
Director of Yanzhou Coal Mining Company Limited
Director of Yancoal International (Holding) Co., Ltd
Special responsibilities
Co-Vice Chairman of the Board
Chairman of the Executive Committee
Chairman of the Strategy and Development Committee
Interests in shares and options
5,905,873 fully paid Yancoal ordinary shares
Qingchun Zhao
Non-Executive Director (28 April 2017 – Current). EMBA
Experience and expertise
Mr Zhao is a senior accountant with an EMBA degree, and is a
Director and the Chief Financial Officer of Yanzhou.
Mr Zhao joined Yanzhou’s predecessor in 1989 and was appointed as
the Chief Accountant of the Finance Department in 2002 and Director
of the Planning and Finance Department of Yanzhou in 2006. In March
2011, he was appointed as the Vice Chief Financial Officer and the
Director of the Finance Department of Yanzhou.
In March 2014, Mr Zhao was appointed Assistant General Manager
and the Director of the Finance Management Department of Yanzhou.
In January 2016, he was appointed as the Chief Financial Officer of
Yanzhou. Mr Zhao graduated from Nankai University.
Other current key directorships
Director of Yanzhou Coal Mining Company Limited
Chairman of Zhongyin Financial Leasing Co., Ltd
Director of Qilu Bank Co., Ltd.
Director of Shanghai CIFCO Co., Ltd
Director of Duanxin Investment Holding (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd
Director of Qingdao Zhongyin International Trade Co., Ltd
Director of Yancoal International (holding) Co.Ltd Yancoal SCN Limited
Director of Yankuang Group Finance Co., Ltd7
Former directorships in last three years
None
Special responsibilities
Member of Strategy and Development Committee
Member of Audit and Risk Management Committee
Interests in shares and options
None
6	 Appointed on 25 December 2017 but effective date subject to relevant Regulator’s approval.
7	 Appointed on 25 December 2017 but effective date subject to relevant Regulator’s approval.
Fuqi Wang
Non-Executive Director (23 April 2015 – Current). ME, EMBA.
Experience and expertise
Mr Fuqi Wang is a research fellow in applied engineering technology
with an EMBA degree and Master of Engineering, and serves as the
Chief Engineer of Yanzhou.
Mr Wang joined Yanzhou’s predecessor in 1985. In 2000, he was
appointed as the Chief Engineer of Production and Technology
Division of Yankuang Group. In 2002, he served as the director of
Production and Technique Department of Yanzhou. In 2003, he was
appointed as the Deputy Chief Engineer and Director of Production
and Technique Department of Yanzhou. In March 2014, he was
appointed as the Chief Engineer of Yanzhou. Mr Wang graduated from
Northeastern University and Nankai University.
Other current key directorships
Director of Yanmei Heze Neng Hua Co., Ltd
Director of Shanxi Future Energy Chemical Co. Ltd.
Former directorships in last three years
None
Special responsibilities
Member of Health, Safety and Environment Committee
Member of Strategy and Development Committee
Interests in shares and options
None
Xiangqian Wu
Non-Executive Director (28 April 2017 – Current). DE
Experience and expertise
Mr Wu joined Yanzhou’s predecessor in 1988. In 2003, he was
appointed as the Deputy Head of Jining No.3 Coal Mine of Yanzhou.
In 2004, he was appointed as the Deputy Head and Chief Engineer of
Jining No.3 Coal Mine of Yanzhou. In 2006, he was appointed as the
Head of Jining No.3 Coal Mine of Yanzhou. In March 2014, he was
promoted as the Chairman and General Manager of Yanzhou Coal
Ordos Neng Hua Co., Ltd. and Chairman of Inner Mongolia Haosheng
Coal Mining Co., Ltd.
In May 2014, he was appointed as a Director of the Yanzhou Coal
Mining Company Limited. In January 2016, he was appointed as
the General Manager of Yanzhou. Mr Wu graduated from Shandong
University of Science and Technology and China University of Mining
and Technology.
Mr Wu is a Research Fellow in Applied Engineering Technology and a
Doctor of Engineering.
Other current key directorships
Director of Yanzhou Coal Mining Company Limited
Chairman of Yanzhou Coal Ordos Neng Hua Co.,Ltd
Chairman of Inner Mongolia Haosheng Coal Mining Co., Ltd
Director of Duanxin Investment Holding (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd
Yancoal International (Holding) Co. Ltd