Each year Yancoal allocates funds at both
a site and corporate level to financially support
community groups and programs across the
areas of health, environment, sport, education,
community and training.
The Yancoal Community Support Program
aims to make a genuine, positive difference to
the lives of those working and living within the
areas Yancoal operates, ensuring the Company
is contributing beyond employment and the
use of local services and contractors.
Currently each Yancoal operation is directly and
independently responsible for the management
of its Community Support Program activities,
including the selection/review process and
allocation of funding amounts.
Each site advertises for applications from
the community in local media and online at
allocated times during the year, with the
review and allocation of funding managed by
the site Community and Environment teams,
with oversight and approval from the
Operations Manager.
In 2017, Yancoal invested more than
$1.3 million into local initiatives1, with funding
allocated to develop and implement
environmental projects; educate, train and
assist local residents gain employment;
sponsor key community events; purchase new
technology and equipment used by hospitals
and regional rescue services; and help support
disadvantaged groups within the community
via social and education initiatives.
Yancoal’s ongoing investment has the potential
to directly support local and regional
community growth with many organisations
increasingly reliant upon external investment
to maintain their quality of services.
Yancoal continues to work co-operatively
with its community stakeholders, relying upon
community consultative committees, local
newsletters, local media, community days
and site-specific websites to help ensure they
are engaged and informed of relevant matters
related to nearby operations.
Yancoal is proud to be investing into local
and regional Australia, helping build stronger
communities across the country.
EXAMPLES OF
RECENT ACTIVITY
In the past year, the Moolarben complex
achieved an important milestone, granting
$1 million in community donations to help
support local groups across Mudgee and
the wider region since 2010.
The Mount Thorley Warkworth operation dug
deep and went pink for breast cancer
awareness, painting a dragline bucket bright
pink and donating $20,000 to the McGrath
Foundation, helping place McGrath Breast
Care Nurses in communities across Australia
and increase cancer awareness across the
Hunter Valley.
Yarrabee partnered with the RACQ Capricorn
Helicopter Rescue Service, with a donation of
$25,000 helping ensure the Capricorn region
of Central Queensland retained the life-saving
emergency services of the RACQ’s airborne
intensive care unit.
Yancoal Corporate established a rolling
three-year partnership of $100,000 per year
with the Clontarf Foundation to support
indigenous youth education services
throughout regional New South Wales
and West Australia, targeting the areas
in which Yancoal manages and operates
its mines.
1 includes the addition of the recently acquired Coal & Allied
assets and associated pre-acquisition community support
initiatives Yancoal will continue to support.
ANNUAL REPORT 2017         19