CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
70      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
The number of meetings held by each committee during 2017
and each member’s attendance at these meetings is set out in the
Directors’ Report on page 51.
An Independent Board Committee is established as and when
required to manage any related party transactions. The Independent
Board Committee was constituted two times in 2017 for the purposes
of considering transactions between or involving the Company and
its major shareholder, Yanzhou. In each case, the Independent Board
Committee comprised at least three independent directors.
Other committees may be established by the Board as and
when required.
Membership of the Board committees is based on the needs of
the Company, relevant regulatory requirements, and the skills and
experience of individual directors.
Director independence
The Board comprises 11 directors, of whom 5 hold their positions in
an independent non-executive capacity (based on the independence
standard disclosed below). The Company’s current independent
directors are Geoffrey Raby, Gregory Fletcher, David Moult
(appointed 30 January 2018), Helen Gillies (appointed 30 January
2018) and Xing Feng (appointed 15 December 2017). During their
appointment, Messrs William Randall (resigned 9 November 2017)
and Vincent O’Rourke AM (resigned 30 January 2018) and Huaqiao
Zhang (resigned 30 January 2018) were each deemed to be
independent directors.
The Board has assessed the independence of each of the Non-
Executive Directors (including the Chairman) in light of their interests
and relationships. A majority of the Board are not considered
independent directors having regard to their affiliation with the
Company’s major shareholder, Yanzhou, and accordingly the
Company does not comply with Recommendation 2.4 of the ASX
Recommendation. However, the Board considers that its composition
appropriately represents the interests of its shareholders including
its major shareholder, Yanzhou, and that the Board has put in place
appropriate policies and procedures to guide the Board and senior
executives in circumstances where conflicts of interest may arise and
in its dealings with Yanzhou, including establishing the Independent
Board Committee referred to above.
To help ensure that any conflicts of interests are identified, the
Company has put in place a standing agenda item at all meetings
of the Board and its committees to provide the directors with the
opportunity of declaring any conflicts of interests in the subject matter
of the proposed resolutions made within the meeting.
To assist the Board in making independent judgements, the Board
Charter sets out the procedure by which the Board collectively, and
each individual director, can seek independent professional advice,
at the Company’s expense.
Each independent director must regularly provide the Board with
all information relevant to their continued compliance with the
independence standard. The independence of directors will be
reviewed by the Board on a regular basis with assistance from the
Nomination and Remuneration Committee. The Nomination and
Remuneration Committee will also assist the Board with regular
evaluation of the performance of the Board, Board committees and
individual directors.
Independence Standard
In assessing the independence of its directors, the Board has regard
to the factors relevant to assessing the independence of a director
that are set out in Box 2.3 of the ASX Recommendations (3rd edition).
The criteria considered in assessing the independence of Non-
Executive Directors are also set out in the Board Charter.
A director is considered independent if the director:
––
is not, and has not within the last three years been, employed in an
executive capacity by the Company or any of its child entities;
––
is not, nor has within the last three years been, a partner, director
or senior employee of a provider of material professional services
to the Company or any of its child entities;
––
is not, nor has within the last three years been, in a material
business relationship with the Company or any of its child entities,
or an officer of, or otherwise associated with, someone with such
a relationship;
––
is not a substantial Shareholder of the Company or an officer
of, or otherwise associated with, a substantial Shareholder of
the Company;
––
does not have a material contractual relationship with the
Company or any of its child entities other than as a director;
––
does not have close family ties with any person who falls within any
of the categories described above;
––
has not been a director of the Company for such a period that his
or her independence may have been compromised; and
––
is free from any other interest, position, association or relationship
that might interfere, or might reasonably be seen to interfere, with
the director’s capacity to bring an independent judgement to bear
on issues before the Board and to act in the best interests of the
Company and its shareholders generally.
The Company’s Constitution provides that the Company’s
shareholders holding a majority of the issued shares of the Company
(which confer the right to vote) may nominate a director to the office
of Chairman and may elect one or more directors to the office of
Vice Chair.
Although as a nominee of Yanzhou, Xiyong Li, the Chairman is not
considered independent by the independence standard (as above),
the Board considers that this is an appropriate reflection of Yanzhou’s
majority shareholding in the Company. While a majority of the directors
are associated with Yanzhou this is considered appropriate in light of
Yanzhou’s major shareholding in the Company.
Xing Feng is employed by China Cinda Asset Management, an
associate of Cinda International HGB Investment (UK) Limited
(a substantial shareholder of the Company). The Board considers that
this relationship does not materially interfere with, nor is perceived to
interfere with, the independent exercise of Mr Feng’s judgement and
that he is able to fulfil the role of independent director for the purpose
of the ASX Recommendations. Accordingly, the Board considers
Mr Feng to be an independent Non-Executive Director. Where
appropriate, Mr Feng will stand aside from decision making where
conflicts of interest may arise, and does not participate in Independent
Board Committees.