INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT 2017      147
ShineWing Australia ABN 39 533 589 331. Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. ShineWing Australia is an independent member of
ShineWing International Limited – members in principal cities throughout the world.
147
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD AND CONTROLLED ENTITIES
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying financial report of Yancoal Australia Ltd (the “Company”), which comprises
the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2017, the consolidated statement of profit or loss and other
comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the consolidated statement of cash
flows for the year then ended, notes comprising a summary of significant accounting policies and other
explanatory information, and the directors’ declaration of the consolidated entity comprising the Company and
the entities it controlled at the year’s end or from time to time during the financial year (the “Group”).
In our opinion:
a)
the financial report of Yancoal Australia Ltd and controlled entities is in accordance with the Corporations Act
2001, including:
i.
giving a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position as at 31 December 2017 and of its
performance for the year ended on that date; and
ii. complying with Australian Accounting Standards and the Corporations Regulations 2001.
b)
the financial report also complies with International Financial Reporting Standards as disclosed in Note A(i).
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we
comply with relevant ethical requirements relating to audit engagements and plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial report is free from material misstatement. Our responsibilities
under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibility section of our report. We are
independent of the Group in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001 and the ethical requirements of the
Accounting Professional and Ethical Standards Board’s APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants
(the “Code”) that are relevant to our audit of the financial report in Australia. We have also fulfilled our other ethical
responsibilities in accordance with the Code.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
opinion.
Key Audit Matters (“KAMs”)
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the
consolidated financial report for the year ended 31 December 2017. These matters were addressed in the context
of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not
provide a separate opinion on these matters.