DIRECTORS’ REPORT      ANNUAL REPORT 2017      47
Former directorships in last three years
None
Special responsibilities
Member of Nomination and Remuneration Committee
Interests in shares and options
None
Xing Feng
Non-Executive Director (15 December 2017). BEng
Experience and expertise
Mr Feng started his career with China Cinda Asset Management
(Cinda) in 1999, and has served in various capacities in the
Department of General Management, Department of General
Business and Department of Investment and Financing. He
has abundant experience in corporate governance, investment
and financing.
He was appointed Assistant General Manager of Cinda’s Strategic
Client Department in 2017, where he is responsible for implementing
the Department’s development strategy plan, involvement in business
review and leading the implementation of the investment plan. He has
successfully completed a number of overseas M&A investments and
mixed-ownership reform of SOE projects.
Mr Feng holds a Bachelor of Engineering (Electrical Engineering and
Automation) from Tsinghua University and is currently studying an
EMBA at Peking University.
Other current key directorships
Director of China Broadcasting and Telecommunications Corporation
Former directorships in last three years
Special responsibilities
Member of Strategy and Development Committee.
Interests in shares and options
None
Gregory Fletcher
Non-Executive Director (26 June 2012 – Current). BCom, CA.
Experience and expertise
Mr Fletcher was a Director of Gloucester Coal Ltd from June
2009. He was appointed a Director of Yancoal after the merger
of Yancoal and Gloucester Coal Ltd in June 2012. Previously, Mr
Fletcher was a senior partner with a Big 4 Accounting Firm where he
specialised in external and internal audits and risk management. He
provided professional services to some of Australia’s largest listed
corporations. Since 2009 Mr Fletcher has taken on Board and Audit
Committee roles.
Mr Fletcher holds a Bachelor of Commerce and he is a
Chartered Accountant.
Other current key directorships
Chairman of SMEG Australia Pty Ltd
Director of Yancoal SCN Limited
Director of Saunders International Limited
Director of TAFE NSW and Member of the Audit and Risk Committee
Member of Audit and Risk Committee, Railcorp
Member of NSW Electoral Commission Audit and Risk Committee
Member of Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee, Sydney Olympic
Park Authority
Member of Audit and Risk Committee NSW State Transit Authority
Former directorships in last three years
Director of WDS Limited
Special responsibilities
Chairman of Audit and Risk Management Committee
Chairman of the Independent Board Committee
Interests in shares and options
69,390 fully paid Yancoal ordinary shares.
Dr Geoffrey Raby
Non-Executive Director (26 June 2012 – Current). BEc (Hons),
MEc and PhD (Economics).
Experience and expertise
Dr Geoffrey Raby was appointed a Director of Yancoal in 2012.
He was Australia’s Ambassador to the People’s Republic of China
from 2007 to 2011. Prior to that, he was a Deputy Secretary in
the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT). Dr Raby has
extensive experience in international affairs and trade, having been
Australia’s Ambassador to the World Trade Organisation (1998–2001),
Australia’s APEC Ambassador (2003–2005), Head of DFAT’s Office of
Trade Negotiations and Head of the Trade Policy Issues Division at the
OECD, Paris. Between 1986 and 1991 he was Head of the Economic
Section at the Australian Embassy, Beijing. He has been the Chair of
DFAT’s Audit Committee and served as an ex officio member of the
Boards of Austrade and Export Finance and Insurance Corporation
(EFIC).
Dr Geoffrey Raby holds a Bachelor of Economics, a Masters of
Economics and a Doctor of Philosophy in Economics.
Other current key directorships
Director of Oceana Gold Corporation Limited
Director of iSentia Group Ltd
Former directorships in last three years
Director of Fortescue Metals Group
Chairman of SmartTrans Holding Limited
Director of YPB Group Ltd
Special responsibilities
Member of Audit and Risk Management Committee
Member of Health, Safety and Environment Committee
Interests in shares and options
800,000 fully paid Yancoal ordinary shares.