NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017
102      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
C3 IMPAIRMENT OF ASSETS
Accounting policies
(i) Long term assets
Mining tenements and goodwill are tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that
they might be impaired.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable
amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of disposal and value in use. Mining tenements and other
non-financial assets (excluding goodwill) that have previously suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at
the end of each reporting period.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped into Cash-Generating Units (“CGU”), being the lowest levels for which there
are separately identifiable cash inflows which are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets. For the
purposes of goodwill impairment testing, CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are aggregated so that the level at which impairment
is tested reflects the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal reporting purposes. The goodwill acquired in a business
combination, for the purpose of impairment testing, is allocated to CGUs that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
The Group assesses impairment by evaluation of conditions and events specific to the Company that may be indicative of
impairment triggers.
(ii) Other financial assets
The Group assesses at the end of each reporting period whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial
assets is impaired. A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective
evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset (a ‘loss event’) and that
loss event (or events) has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be
reliably estimated.
If there is evidence of impairment for any of the Group’s financial assets carried at amortised cost, the loss is measured as the difference
between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, excluding future credit losses that have not been
incurred. The cash flows are discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. The loss is recognised in profit or loss.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The determination of fair value and value in use requires management to make estimates and assumptions about expected production
and sales volumes, coal prices (considering current and historical prices, price trends and related factors), foreign exchange rates, coal
resources and reserves (refer to C2), operating costs, closure and rehabilitation costs and future capital expenditure. These estimates and
assumptions are subject to risk and uncertainty; hence there is a possibility that changes in circumstances will alter these projections, which
may impact the recoverable amount of the assets. In such circumstances, some or all of the carrying amount of the assets may be further
impaired or the impairment charge reduced with the impact recorded in the statement of profit or loss.
(a) CGU assessment
The Group operates on a regional basis within NSW and as such the NSW mines are considered to be one CGU. In 2017, Hunter Valley
Operations and Mount Thorley Warkworth have been included in the NSW regional CGU alongside Moolarben and Stratford/Duralie. Yarrabee
and Middlemount are considered separate CGUs due to location and ownership structure.
(b) Assessment of fair value
Each CGU’s fair value less costs of disposal has been determined using a discounted cash flow model over the expected life on mine (10 – 43
years). The fair value model adopted has been categorised as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
C – OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES