MARKET
CONTEXT
Throughout 2017, Yancoal continued to
implement cost reduction strategies across
all operations, addressed existing take-or-pay
arrangements, and blended products
across the New South Wales operations
(both managed and operated) to meet
new market opportunities.
Yancoal’s product sales split (equity share)
for 2017 was 19.6Mt (2016 11.6Mt) thermal
and 8.99Mt (2016 7.7Mt) metallurgical coal.
Yancoal Australia Sales Pty Ltd (YAS)
continued to facilitate the sale of coal blends,
contracting with and paying the supplying
coal mines, whether operated wholly or in joint
venture by a Yancoal subsidiary, an asset
managed by Yancoal Australia Ltd on behalf
of Yancoal International (Holding) Co. Ltd,
or a third-party mine.
OUTLOOK
Recent increases in metallurgical coal prices
are expected to hold, allowing for ongoing
price strength, as high demand for hard
coking coal across China, India, Europe and
South America remains. The global market is
benefiting from high steel prices in 2017 and
sustained construction rates in China, despite
the introduction of environmental restrictions
in the winter months.
In contrast, thermal coal markets face
potential price volatility in the year ahead,
as increased market competition from South
African and Colombian coals into the Asian
seaborne market, aiming to benefit from
recent higher thermal prices, will place further
pressure on Australian coal sale opportunities.
China’s import of low grade thermal coal
is expected to remain relatively strong and
consistent with 2017 levels, while solid
market growth opportunities exist within
South East Asia and the Subcontinent.
Yancoal remains focused on end-users
in the prime target markets of China, Korea
and Japan, while maximising new sales
opportunities generated via the acquisition
of the Mount Thorley Warkworth and Hunter
Valley Operations mines, including the
marketing of semi-soft coal products into
India and Europe and premium thermal coals
across Asian markets.
2017 experienced sustained global
coal market price improvements, with
industry-high benchmark prices for
semi-soft coking and thermal coals
achieved during the reporting period.
GUIDANCE
2018 guidance for saleable production is
35 – 37 million tonnes (equity share1).
1	Includes Watagan (100%), Middlemount (49.9997%), Yarrabee
(100%), Stratford Duralie (100%), Moolarben (81%), Mount
Thorley Warkworth (82.9% from 1 March 2018), and Hunter
Valley Operations (51% on the basis that Glencore will be
entitled to a 49% interest in Hunter Valley Operations with
economic effect from 1 September 2017 on implementation of
the Hunter Valley Operations Joint Venture). The Hunter Valley
Operations Joint Venture remains subject to Glencore achieving
all required approvals.
14         YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD