DIRECTORS’ REPORT      ANNUAL REPORT 2017      57
3.5.3 SIS Breakeven Bonus 2017
On 28 February 2017 the Board discussed a breakeven bonus as a special once off incentive plan to incentivise Senior Employees within
the business to continue to drive productivity and efficiency gains in an endeavour for a 2017 business turnaround which would position the
Company for future success. The final turnaround number excluded the Coal & Allied transaction and the identified total amount to be awarded
will be 2.5% of the total loss reduced. It was delegated to two Independent Directors, Helen Gillies and Greg Fletcher, with the CEC and CEO to
determine an eligible employee, where that employee is in a position to influence the outcome and direction of a function or operation.
It was delegated to Helen Gillies and Greg Fletcher to determine the amount to be awarded to the KMPs.
The Board considers the success of this was fundamental to growing shareholder value. The benefits from this special incentive has been
recognised in FY2017 accounts and will be paid to the participants in during 2018.
To provide alignment with shareholders both the SIS Breakeven Bonus 2017 and the Transaction Bonus 2017 referred to in 3.5.4 will be
awarded in Deferred Share Rights, unless the amount awarded to the employee is less than $100,000, when it can be awarded in cash.
Deferred Share Rights are rights to receive ordinary shares in Yancoal. These rights will be awarded in 2018 at no cost to the participant.
Amount Awarded
CEO
Special Incentive
Scheme Breakeven
CFO
Special Incentive
Scheme Breakeven
CEC
Special Incentive
Scheme Breakeven
Year 2017
$600,000
$150,000
$300,000
3.5.4 Transaction Bonus 2017
To reward the exceptional performance over more than two years required to deliver the Coal & Allied transaction, as well as to incentivise staff
to maximise post acquisition performance and synergy delivery a bonus has been approved by the Board.
The Board considers the success of this key transformational project was fundamental to growing shareholder value. The benefits from this
special incentive has been recognised in FY2017 accounts and will be paid to the participants during 2018.
It was delegated to Helen Gillies and Greg Fletcher to determine the amount to be awarded to the KMPs.
Amount Awarded
CEO
Transaction Bonus
CFO
Transaction Bonus
CEC
Transaction Bonus
Year 2017
$1,508,389
$529,980
$605,381
3.5.5 Long Term Incentive Plan
The key characteristics of the LTI plan are outlined below.
TABLE 6: LTI operation
Eligibility
Reinhold Schmidt, Lei Zhang, Baocai Zhang and other Senior Management are eligible to participate in the
LTI Plan.
Objective
The objective of the LTI Plan is to reward and retain certain Senior Management who are in positions to influence
the Company’s long-term performance.
Allocation frequency
Each year, eligible Executives are considered for an annual LTI grant. The LTI is subject to the satisfactory
performance of the Company and service-based vesting conditions.
LTI opportunity
The Chair of the Executive Committee and the Chief Executive Officer have an annual LTI opportunity between
100% and 150% of FAR.
The Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) has an LTI opportunity of 15% of base remuneration.
LTI instrument
The Company may at its discretion settle an Executive’s LTI opportunity in the form of options, performance rights,
shares, cash or any other instrument.
LTI vesting schedule
Each annual LTI award vests on completion of three continuous years of service and thereafter vests each year.
For the CEO and CFO their first LTI Award vests on 1 January 2017 and thereafter at the completion of three
continuous years of service. Each award is paid in 3 tranches.
For the CEC his first LTI Award vests on 1 January 2018 and thereafter at the completion of three continuous years
of service. Each award is paid in 3 tranches.
Termination arrangements
If an eligible Executive ceases employment with the Company before the relevant vesting date, the Executive
forfeits 100% of their LTI opportunity.
For the CEO if the Company terminates the employment, other than for cause, any unvested LTI will continue to
vest in accordance with the original vesting arrangements.