INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT      ANNUAL REPORT 2017      151
151
•
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial report, whether due to fraud or error,
design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from
fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions,
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
•
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the
entity’s internal control. However, we will communicate to you in writing concerning any significant deficiencies
in internal control relevant to the audit of the financial report that we have identified during the audit.
•
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and
related disclosures made by management.
•
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may
cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material
uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the
financial report or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the
audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause
the Group to cease to continue as a going concern.
•
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial report, including the disclosures, and
whether the financial report represents the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair
presentation.
•
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business
activities within the Group to express an opinion on the financial report. We are responsible for the direction,
supervision and performance of the Group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
The Auditing Standards require that we comply with relevant ethical requirements relating to audit engagements.
We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to
bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the
audit of the financial report of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters
in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely
rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse
consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such
communication.
Report on the Remuneration Report
We have audited the Remuneration Report included in pages 52 to 63 of the directors’ report for the year ended 31
December 2017. The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation and presentation of the
Remuneration Report in accordance with section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001. Our responsibility is to express
an opinion on the Remuneration Report, based on our audit conducted in accordance with Australian Auditing
Standards.