CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
80      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
Health, safety and hazardous materials risks
The Company’s operations may substantially impact the environment
or cause exposure to hazardous materials. It will use hazardous
materials and will generate hazardous waste, and may be subject to
common law claims, damages due to natural disasters, and other
damages, as well as the investigation and clean-up of soil, surface
water, groundwater, and other media. Such claims may arise, for
example, out of current or former activities at sites that it owns
or operates.
There is also a risk that actions could be brought against the
Company, alleging adverse effects of such substances on personal
health. If any injuries or accidents occur in a mine, this could have
adverse financial implications including legal claims for personal injury,
wrongful death, amendments to approvals, potential production
delays or stoppages, any of which may have a material adverse effect
on the financial performance and/or financial position of the Company.
There is a risk that past, present or future operations have not met,
or will not meet, health and safety requirements and/or that the
approvals or modifications the Company is currently seeking, or may
need to seek in the future, will not be granted at all or on terms that
are unduly onerous. If the Company is unsuccessful in these efforts or
otherwise breaches these health and safety requirements, it may incur
fines or penalties, be required to curtail or cease operations and/or
be subject to increased compliance costs or costs for rehabilitation or
rectification works, which have not been previously planned at one or
more of its sites.
Impairment risks
The Company’s balance sheet includes a number of assets that are
subject to impairment risk, including mining tenements, exploration
and evaluation assets, goodwill, the Middlemount loan and royalty
receivable, the Watagan loan receivable and investments accounted
for using the equity method.
The value of these assets is derived from the fundamental valuation
of the underlying mining operations and as such is subject to many of
the risks including, but not limited to, coal price and demand, foreign
exchange, coal production, estimates of reserves and resources,
uncertainty in costs forecasts, operating risks, injury and mine closure.
Adverse changes in these risk factors could lead to a reduction in the
valuation of the Company’s assets and result in an impairment charge
being recognised.
Internal audit function
The internal audit function is managed by the Executive General
Manager (EGM) of Risk Management and Auditing. That person
has direct access to the chair of the Audit and Risk Management
Committee, as well as to the CEC, to whom he directly reports. The
Audit and Risk Management Committee recommends to the Board
the appointment of the EGM Risk Management and Auditing.
Where appropriate the internal audit function is supported primarily by
external consultants.
The EGM of Risk Management and Auditing has unfettered access
to the Audit and Risk Management Committee and its chair to
seek information and explanations. The chair of the Audit and Risk
Management Committee meets independently with the EGM Risk
Management and Auditing.
The role of the EGM Risk Management and Auditing includes
achievement of the internal audit objectives, risk management policies
and insurance strategy.
An annual program for internal audit and risk assurance is provided
to the Audit and Risk Management Committee for approval. The
annual Internal Audit program is focused on key operating risks and
processes design and effectiveness.
The program includes a review of compliance with the obligations
imposed by the US Sarbanes Oxley Act (SOX), including evaluating
and documenting internal controls as required by section 404 of SOX.
A status report on the execution of the plan, including current findings
and actions is provided to the Audit and Risk Management Committee
at each quarterly meeting. Any material findings are reported to
the Board.
The Audit and Risk Management Committee receives a report on key
issues and subsequently corrective actions are monitored, reviewed
and reported.
Health, Safety and Environment Compliance
The Company has adopted policies to comply with occupational
health, safety, environment and other laws. The Board has approved
a Health, Safety and Environment Policy which applies across the
Company. In addition, each mine site has its own health, safety and
environmental policies and procedures to deal with their particular
health, safety and environmental issues. The Board has established a
Health, Safety and Environment Committee to assist it in overseeing
the Company’s health, safety and environmental responsibilities.
In accordance with its charter, this committee has at least three
members. The current members of this committee are David Moult
(appointed 6 February 2018) (Chair of the committee), Geoffrey Raby
and Fuqi Wang. Vincent O’Rourke resigned as chair of the Committee
on 30 January 2018. It is intended the committee meets at least four
times per year, or as frequently as required. The committee meetings
are held at one of the Company’s mine sites, whenever possible, to
receive feedback from the health, safety and environment forum held
at the mine site and to address any mine specific health, safety and
environment issues.
Principle 8: Remunerate fairly and responsibly
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
The Board has established a Nomination and Remuneration
Committee. In accordance with its Charter, this committee currently
has 4 members, Xiyong Li (Chair of the committee), Cunliang Lai,
Xiangqian Wu (appointed 15 May 2017) and Helen Gillies (appointed
6 February 2018). William Randall resigned as a member of the
Committee on 9 November 2017. Three of the members of the
committee, including the chair of the committee are not independent
directors of the Company. However, the Board considers them
appropriate members, and in the case of Xiyong Li, an appropriate
chair of this committee, due to their skill set, experience and seniority,
and that the overall composition of the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee is appropriate.
Three of the committee members are non-independent Non-Executive
Directors who are not remunerated by the Company for their roles as
directors or committee members. The purpose of the committee is
outlined in the Board Committees section above.
The committee makes recommendations to the Board to achieve
Company remuneration structures that are equitable and aligned
with the long-term interests of the Company and its shareholders, to
attract and retain skilled employees, to structure short and long term
incentives that are challenging and linked to creation of sustainable
returns and to ensure any termination benefits are justifiable and
appropriate. The committee has recently engaged an external advisor