INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT      ANNUAL REPORT 2017      149
149
Key Audit Matter
How the matter was addressed during the audit
market or economic conditions, particularly those in
China and Asia.
Taxation
(Note B6)
The Group is subject to income taxes in Australia.
Significant judgement is required in determining the
provision for income taxes. The Group estimates its tax
liabilities based on the Group’s understanding of the tax
law. Where the final tax outcome of these matters is
different from the amounts that were initially recorded,
such differences will impact the current and deferred
income tax assets and liabilities in the period in which
such determination is made.
During the year the Group completed a significant
capital raising to acquire Coal& Allied. In conjunction
with the capital raising for the Coal & Allied acquisition,
Yanzhou Coal Mining Company Limited (“Yanzhou”)
converted its holdings of Subordinated Capital Notes
(“SCNs”) into ordinary shares of Yancoal. Due to these
transactions the applicability of prior period losses
needed to be assessed against the Continuity of
Ownership Test (“COT”).
Significant judgement is required in calculating taxation
balances and the recoverability of the net deferred tax
assets (notes B6(b) and B6(c)). To assess the
recoverability of these assets cash flow forecasts are
used to ascertain whether the recoverability of these
assets is probable.
Our audit procedures included, among others:
• Assessing the tax calculations prepared by the Group;
• Evaluating the key assumptions used to determine the
tax provision and deferred taxation assets and
liabilities. This included utilising our taxation specialists
where necessary;
• Evaluating the recoverability of deferred taxation
assets including considering the COT; and
• We assessed the Group’s taxation disclosures.
Parent company support
(Note A(x))
The Group has the support of its parent Yanzhou Coal
Mining Company Ltd (“Yanzhou”) through a letter of
support and guarantees over external borrowings.
The Group is in the process of completing the
acquisition of 28.9% of Warkworth from Mitsubishi
Development Pty Ltd (“MDP”) for US$230 million on 1
March 2017 and the expected sale of 16.6% of the
Hunter Valley Operations Joint Venture (“HVO”) to a
subsidiary of Glencore Coal Pty Ltd (“Glencore”).
If the sale of the 16.6% of HVO is not completed then
the Group will be required to complete the tag-along
purchase of 32.4% of HVO from MDP for US$710
million. This will require additional funding from capital
markets, the financiers or Yanzhou.
Our audit procedures included, among others:
• Assessing the cash flow forecasts prepared by
management for the 12 months from the date of
signing the financial statements;
• Assessing the credit facilities available to Yancoal to
assess their adequacy compared to the cash flow
forecasts;
• Assessing the validity of the Letter of Support provided
by Yanzhou to supporting information including
Yanzhou financial statements;
• Reviewing the minutes and correspondence of the
Company for any revocation of the Letter of Support
provided by Yanzhou; and
• Assessing the Group’s disclosures in relation to this
matter.
Watagan Mining Company Pty Ltd (“Watagan”)
(Note E2(b)(i))
Even though the Group holds 100% of the nominal
share capital of Watagan the Directors have assessed
that the Group does not control Watagan as it is not
able to direct the relevant activities of Watagan.
Our audit procedures included, among others:
• Assessing the current governance arrangements of
Watagan against AASB 10 Consolidated Financial
Statements to assess whether the financiers have
control of the operations.