NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017
86      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
A – BASIS OF PREPARATION
The consolidated financial statements and notes are for the
consolidated entity consisting of Yancoal Australia Ltd (“Company”
or “parent entity”) and its subsidiaries (“the Group”).
These general purpose financial statements have been prepared
in accordance with the Australian Accounting Standards and
interpretations issued by the Australian Accounting Standards Board
and the Corporations Act 2001. Yancoal Australia Ltd is a for-profit
entity for the purpose of preparing the financial statements.
The financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance with
a resolution of the Directors on 28 February 2018.
(i) Compliance with IFRS
The consolidated financial statements of the Group also comply with
International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as issued by the
International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”).
(ii) Subsidiaries
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has
rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has
the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is
transferred to the Group. They are de-consolidated from the date that
control ceases.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for business
combinations by the Group. Intercompany transactions, balances
and unrealised gains on transactions between the Group companies
are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides
evidence of the impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting
policies of subsidiaries are aligned to ensure consistency with the
policies adopted by the Group.
(iii) Significant accounting policies
Significant accounting policies have been included in the
relevant notes to which the policies relate, and other significant
accounting policies are discussed in Note F5. These policies
have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless
otherwise stated.
(iv) Historical cost convention
These financial statements have been prepared on an accrual
basis and under the historical cost convention, as modified by the
revaluation of available for sale financial assets and financial assets
and liabilities (including derivative instruments) at fair value through
profit or loss.
(v) Rounding of amounts
The Company is of a kind referred to in ASIC Legislative Instrument
2016/191, issued by the Australian Securities and Investments
Commission, relating to the ‘rounding off’ of amounts in the financial
statements. Amounts in the financial statements have been rounded
off in accordance with that legislative instrument to the nearest million
dollars, or in certain cases, the nearest dollar.
(vi) New and amended standards adopted by the Group
The Group has not elected to apply any other pronouncements
before their operative date in the annual reporting period beginning
1 January 2017.
The new standards that are applicable to for the first time for the year
ended 31 December 2017 are:
––
AASB 2016-1 Amendments to Australian Accounting Standards –
Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses
––
AASB 2016-2 Amendments to Australian Accounting Standards –
Disclosure Initiative: Amendments to AASB 107
These standards have introduced new disclosures for the Annual
Financial Report but did not affect the Group’s accounting policies or
any of the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
(vii) Impact of standards issued but not yet applied by the Group
Australian Accounting Standards and Interpretations issued but not
yet applicable for the year ended 31 December 2017 that not been
applied by the Group are disclosed in Note F7.
(viii) Early adoption of standards
Certain new accounting standards and interpretations have been
published that are not mandatory for 31 December 2017 reporting
periods and have not been early adopted by the Group. The Group’s
assessment of the impact of these new standards and interpretations
is set out below.
(ix) Critical accounting estimates
The preparation of financial statements requires the use of certain
critical accounting estimates that involve a higher degree of judgement
or complexity. It also requires management to exercise its judgement
in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies.
The Directors evaluate estimates and judgements incorporated
into these financial statements based on historical knowledge and
best available current information. Estimates assume a reasonable
expectation of future events and are based on current trends and
economic data, obtained both externally and within the Company.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the
related actual results.
Details of critical accounting estimates and judgements can be found
in the notes to which they relate and include income taxes B6, mining
tenements C2, impairment of assets C3, exploration and evaluation
assets C4, trade and other receivables C7, royalty receivable C9,
provisions C10, acquisition of Coal & Allied E1, and control of
Watagan E2.