CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
76      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
Coal Resource and Coal Reserve estimates are regularly revised
based on actual production experience or new information and could
therefore be expected to change. Furthermore, should the Company
encounter mineralisation or formations different from those predicted
by past drilling, sampling and similar examinations, Coal Resource
and Coal Reserve estimates may have to be adjusted and mining
plans, coal processing and infrastructure may have to be altered in a
way that might adversely affect their operations. If it is determined that
mining of certain Coal Reserves are uneconomic, this may lead to a
reduction in the Company’s aggregate Coal Reserve estimates.
Material changes in Coal Reserve estimates, grades, strip ratios,
washing yields or recovery rates may affect the economic viability
of projects. Coal Reserve estimates should not be interpreted
as assurances of mine life or of the profitability of current or
future operations.
If the Company’s actual Coal Resource and Coal Reserve estimates
are less than current estimates, the Company’s prospects, value,
business, results of operations and financial condition may be
materially adversely affected.
Take or pay liabilities
Port and rail (above rail and below rail) capacity is generally contracted
via long-term take-or-pay contracts. The Company will generally be
required to pay for its contracted rail or port tonnage irrespective of
whether it is utilised. Unused port or rail capacity can arise as a result
of circumstances including insufficient production from a given mine,
a mismatch between port and rail capacity for a mine, or an inability
to transfer the used capacity due to contractual limitations such as
required consent of the provider of the port or rail services, or because
the coal must emanate from specified source mines or be loaded onto
trains at specified load points.
The Company currently has excess port and rail capacity
commitments across its NSW operations, which represents a
significant cost to its NSW operations. Delays in the Company’s
NSW growth projects may exacerbate the Company’s current
excess position.
Uncertainty in costs forecast
The business operations and financial condition of the Company
may vary with fluctuations in production and capital costs. Changes
in the costs of mining and processing operations as well as capital
costs could occur, including as a result of unforeseen events, such
as international and local economic and political events (including
movement in exchange rates) or unexpected geological or mining
conditions, and could have material adverse financial consequences
for the Company.
NICG and WICET debt
As a shipper in NCIG and WICET, the Company’s source mines are
required to maintain a minimum level of Marketable Coal Reserves
(11 years’ worth of contracted capacity). Non-compliance with
this requirement would ultimately result in the termination of the
individual contracts and require the Company to pay its share of any
outstanding senior debt, currently approximately, A$1 billion and
A$0.3 billion, respectively.
Mine closure
Closure of any of the mines or other operations of the Company
before the end of their mine life (e.g. due to environmental, geological,
geotechnical, commercial and/or health and safety issues), could
trigger significant employee redundancy costs, closure and
rehabilitation expense and other costs or loss of revenues. Many
of these costs will also be incurred where mines are closed at the
end of their planned mine life or placed on care and maintenance. A
move to care and maintenance has the potential to trigger significant
employee redundancy costs and a subsequent loss of revenues, as a
minimal employee presence is required for ongoing management and
rehabilitation of the mine.
If one or more of the relevant sites are closed earlier than anticipated,
the Company will be required to fund the closure costs on an
expedited basis and potentially lose revenues, which could have an
adverse financial effect. In addition, there is a risk that claims may be
made arising from environmental remediation upon closure of one or
more of their sites.
Coal supply agreements
The Company’s coal supply agreements typically require the delivery
of a fixed or minimum quantity of coal at a location, at a time and
over a period stipulated in the agreement. To the extent that any
contracted volumes cannot be delivered as agreed, the Company
may be liable to pay substantial compensation for the resulting losses,
costs and charges (including demurrage) incurred by the buyer.
As customer contracts expire, the Company will be likely to renew
contracts with long-term customers, or seek to enter into new
contracts with new buyers and markets, depending on the feasibility
of this. Tonnes that are not contracted are sold onto the spot market
at either index-linked or fixed price levels. The Company’s strategy
for 2018 will be to increase its term contracted position as well as to
target end-user customers as opposed to traders.
Most of the Company’s coal supply agreements also require the
delivery of coal meeting specified quality thresholds for characteristics
such as moisture content, sulphur content and ash content.
Depending on these quality thresholds, coal will be sold into markets
that are the highest paying for coal with the relevant qualities.
Joint ventures and reliance on third parties
The Company holds a number of joint venture interests, including
interests in the Middlemount, Moolarben, HVO, Mount Thorley and
Warkworth joint ventures, PWCS, NCIG and WICET, with other
parties. Decision making, management, marketing and other key
aspects of each joint venture are regulated by agreements between
the relevant joint venture participants. Under these agreements,
certain decisions require the endorsement of third party joint
venture participants and the Company relies on the co-operation
of these third parties for the success of its current operations and/
or the development of its growth projects and the transportation of
increased production.
The Company cannot control the actions of third party joint venture
participants, and therefore cannot guarantee that joint ventures will
be operated or managed in accordance with the preferred direction
or strategy of the Company. There is a risk that the veto rights of,
or consents required from, the joint venture partners will prevent the
business and assets of a joint venture from being developed, operated
and managed in accordance with that preferred direction or strategy.