CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT    ANNUAL REPORT 2017      67
The Board has set the following measurable objectives in relation to
gender diversity for 2018:
1.	 Continue to increase employee awareness and understanding
of the importance of diversity by implementing training on the
Company’s Diversity Policy and Workplace Behaviour & Anti-
Discrimination Policy.
2.	 Continue to target a diverse group of candidates with recruitment
and selection procedures that are merit based and non-
discriminatory.
3.	 Continue to ensure our managers are adept recruiters, retainers
and motivators of our diverse workplace.
4.	 Conduct a pay analysis to ensure all salaries both of male and
females are progressing towards the market rate.
5.	 Review of the Workplace Behaviour and Anti-Discrimination Policy.
6.	 Implementation of the Company’s new Parental Leave Policy.
Proportion of Women in the Company
Gender has been identified as a key area of focus for the Company.
On an annual basis, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee
reviews the proportion of women employed by the Company and
submits a report to the Board outlining its findings. Details regarding
the proportion of men and women throughout the organisation are set
out below.
During 2017, the proportion of women who were directly employed
by the Company as a whole was 10%: 363 Full-time, 21 Part-time
and 7 Casual. There was no change between 2016 and 2017 in the
percentage of females in comparison to the percentage of males.
The proportion of women in senior management roles (being roles
which directly report to the CEO or CEC) within the Company during
2017 was 8%: Women held 1 of 12 senior management roles within
the Company.
There were no women on the Company’s Board during 2017,
however, on 30 January 2018, one female non-executive director was
appointed to Board.
Performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee oversees an annual
evaluation process for the Board, its committees and each director
based on the Board Performance Evaluation Protocol (Protocol)
adopted and approved by the Board in 2012.
The Board
Periodically, a review of the structure and operation of the Board,
the skills and characteristics required by the Board to maximise its
effectiveness and whether the mix of skills, experience and expertise
and the Board’s practices and procedures are appropriate for
the present and future needs of the Company is conducted. This
evaluation of performance of the Board may be conducted with the
assistance of an external facilitator. As set out in the Board Charter,
the review of the Board involves directors providing written feedback
on the Board’s performance to the Chairman or to an external
facilitator, which in turn is discussed by the Board, with consideration
of whether any steps for improvement are required.
It is expected that externally facilitated reviews will occur
approximately every three years. The independent external facilitator
will seek input from each of the Directors and certain members of
senior management in relation to the performance of the Board
against a set of agreed criteria.
Once an externally facilitated review occurs, the progress against any
recommendations from the most recent externally facilitated review,
together with any new issues, will be considered internally. Feedback
from each director against a set of agreed criteria will be collected by
the Chairman or the external facilitator. The CEC and CEO will also
provide feedback from senior executives in connection with any issues
that may be relevant in the context of the Board performance review.
Feedback will be collected by the Chairman, or an external facilitator,
and discussed by the Board, with consideration being given as to
whether any steps should be taken to improve performance of the
Board or its committees.
Since the adoption of the Protocol in 2012, the Company carried out
four annual board performance reviews internally, and has conducted
one externally facilitated board performance review. An externally
facilitated review of the Board was carried out in 2016 (in respect of
2015) and a review of the Board was conducted internally in 2018 (in
respect of 2017), in accordance with process disclosed above.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee considers
assessments by independent bodies regarding Boards of Australian
companies and their performance. The chair of the Nomination and
Remuneration Committee reports any material issues or findings from
these evaluations to the Board.
Board committees
Each of the four standing committees of the Board conducts
an annual committee performance self-assessment to review
performance using guidelines approved by the Nomination and
Remuneration Committee. The guidelines include reviewing the
committee’s performance having regard to its role and responsibilities
as set out in its Charter; consideration as to whether the committee’s
Charter is fit for purpose; and identification of future topics for training/
education of the committee or its individual members.
The outcomes of the performance self-assessments are reported
to the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (or to the Board,
if there are any material issues relating to the Nomination and
Remuneration Committee) for discussion and noting.
Each committee provides feedback to the Board on its own
performance, which is collected by the Chairman or an external
facilitator, and the feedback is discussed by the Board, with
consideration of whether any steps for improvement are required.
The most recent review of the Board’s committees was conducted
in 2018 (in respect of 2017) in accordance with the process
disclosed above.
Individual Directors
Directors are evaluated on, amongst other things, their alignment with
the values of the Company, their commitment to their duties and their
level of financial, technical and specialist knowledge.
An annual performance review of Non-Executive Directors is
conducted by the Chairman for each Non-Executive Director,
specifically addressing the performance criteria within the Protocol.
An annual review of the performance of the Chairman is facilitated by
the Co-Vice Chairmen who seeks input from each director individually
on the performance of the Chairman against the competencies for the
Chairman’s role approved by the Board. The Co-Vice Chairmen collate
the input in order to provide an overview report to the Nomination and
Remuneration Committee and to the Board, as well as feedback to
the Chairman.