DIRECTORS’ REPORT      ANNUAL REPORT 2017      65
Introduction
The Company adopts an approach to corporate governance based
on international best practice and Australian law requirements. The
Board and management are committed to corporate governance.
To the extent appropriate to the scale and nature of the Company’s
business, the Company has adopted the 3rd edition of the ASX
Corporate Governance Council’s Principles and Recommendations
(ASX Recommendations).
This statement sets out the Company’s compliance with the 3rd
edition of the ASX Recommendations, and the main corporate
governance policies and practices adopted by the Company.
Principle 1: Lay solid foundations for management and oversight
Role of the Board
The Board is responsible for the overall corporate governance of the
Company including directing the affairs of the Company, setting and
monitoring the Company’s risk management strategy and overseeing
the appointment, remuneration and performance of senior executives.
The Board is committed to maximising performance, generating
appropriate levels of shareholder value and financial return, and
sustaining the growth and success of the Company. The Board’s
role and responsibilities and its delegation of authority to standing
committees and senior executives have been formalised in a Board
Charter. The Board Charter can be found within the Corporate
Governance section of the Company’s website.
The Board Charter sets out the procedure by which the Board
collectively, and each individual director, can seek independent
professional advice at the Company’s expense.
Delegation to management
The Board delegates responsibility for the day to day management of
the Company’s affairs and implementation of the strategy and policy
initiatives set by the Board to the Chair of the Executive Committee
(CEC), the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and other senior executives.
The Executive Committee is a management committee comprising
the CEC, CEO, the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and any other senior
executives that the Board resolves from time to time will be members
of the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee Charter sets out the functions of the
Executive Committee and the duties of the CEC, CEO and CFO.
The Executive Committee Charter also provides the financial decision
authorities and appropriate approval thresholds at different levels
which have been approved by the Board.
Senior executive contracts
The Company’s senior executives are employed under employment
contracts that set out the terms of their employment.
Company Secretary
The Company Secretary is accountable directly to the Board, through
the Chairman of the Board (Chairman), on all matters to do with the
proper functioning of the Board. All directors have direct access to the
Company Secretary. The Board Charter sets out the other duties of
the Company Secretary, which include being responsible for:
––
ensuring compliance by the Company with the Company’s
constitution, the provisions of the Corporations Act and other
applicable laws as they relate to the Company;
––
providing corporate governance advice to the Board;
––
ensuring that the Company’s books and registers required by
the Corporations Act are established and properly maintained;
––
ensuring that all notices and responses are lodged with ASIC and
ASX on time; and
––
organising and attending shareholder meetings and directors’
meetings, including sending out notices, preparing agendas,
marshalling proxies and compiling minutes.
Nomination and appointment of Directors
The Board considers that Board succession planning, and
the progressive and orderly renewal of the Company’s Board
membership, are an important part of the governance process.
The Board’s policy for the selection, appointment and re-appointment
of directors is to ensure that the Board possesses an appropriate
range of skills, experience and expertise to enable the Board to carry
out its responsibilities most effectively. As part of this appointment and
re-appointment process, the directors consider Board renewal and
succession plans and whether the Board‘s size and composition is
conducive to making appropriate decisions.
At the time of appointment of a new Non-Executive Director, the
key terms and conditions relevant to that person’s appointment, the
Board’s responsibilities and the Company’s expectations of a director
are set out in a letter of appointment. The Company has implemented
an induction program through which new Non-Executive Directors are
introduced to the Company’s operations and are familiarised with the
Company’s strategy, culture and core values.
The Board has established a Nomination and Remuneration
Committee to make recommendations to the Board on matters such
as succession plans for the Board, the size and composition of the
Board, potential candidates for appointment to the Board, re-election
of directors, Board induction and Board evaluation procedures. The
structure and membership of the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee is described further under Principles 2 and 8.
The Board recognises that people are its most important asset and is
committed to the maintenance and promotion of workplace diversity.
Whilst traditionally experience as a senior executive or director of a
large organisation with international operations is a prerequisite for
candidature, in accordance with the Diversity Policy, the Board also
seeks skills and experience in the following areas:
––
marketing and sales;
––
policy and regulatory development and reform;
––
health, safety and environment and social responsibility; and
––
human resources.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
ANNUAL REPORT 2017         65