NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017
118      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
D7 CONTINGENCIES (CONTINUED)
Contingent liabilities (continued)
(iv) Mitsubishi Development Pty tag along right
As announced 28 July 2017, Yancoal has separately entered into a
conditional binding implementation agreement with Glencore Coal
Pty Ltd (“Glencore”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Glencore plc,
under which Yancoal and Glencore will establish a 51% (Yancoal) and
49% (Glencore) unincorporated joint venture in relation to HVO (the
“Glencore Transaction”).
Glencore has agreed to pay US$1,139 million for its 49% interest,
of which: US$710 million will be paid to HVO Resources Pty Ltd
(“HVOR”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Mitsubishi Development Pty
(“MDP”), for the acquisition of HVOR’s 32.4% interest in the Hunter
Valley Operations mining complex (“HVO”), and US$429 million
will be paid to Yancoal for the acquisition of a 16.6% interest in
HVO from Yancoal. Glencore will also pay to Yancoal 27.9% of the
US$240 million in future non-contingent royalty payments and 49% of
the coal price linked contingent royalty payments associated with HVO
that are payable by Yancoal to Rio Tinto Limited for the Acquisition.
The Transaction is subject to a number of conditions precedent,
including Glencore obtaining all necessary regulatory approvals,
including final competition clearance from Japan. Should the
conditions precedent not be satisfied then Yancoal would need to pay
HVOR US$710 million to acquire its 32.4% interest in HVO.
(v) Other contingencies
A number of claims have been made against the Group, including in
respect of personal injuries, and in relation to contracts which Group
members are party to as part of the Group’s day to day operations.
The personal injury claims which have been made against the Group
have largely been assumed by the insurers of the Group under the
Group’s insurance policies. The Directors do not believe that the
outcome of these claims will have a material impact on the Group’s
financial position.
D8 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market
risk (including foreign exchange risk, price risk and interest rate risk),
credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall risk management
program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets
and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the financial
performance of the Group. The Group uses derivative financial
instruments such as foreign exchange contracts to hedge certain risk
exposures. Derivatives are exclusively used for hedging purposes and
not as speculative instruments. The Group uses different methods to
measure different types of risk to which it is exposed. These methods
include sensitivity analysis in the case of foreign exchange, interest
rate risk and other price risks, and aging analysis for credit risk.
The Group holds the following financial instruments:
(i)	 Cash and cash equivalents;
(ii)	 Trade and other receivables;
(iii)	 Trade and other payables;
(iv)	 Interest-bearing liabilities, including bank loans and finance leases;
(v)	 Available-for-sale investments;
(vi)	 Royalty receivable;
(vii)	Derivative financial instruments; and
(viii)	Interest-bearing loan from associate.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for determining risk
management objectives and policies and risk management is carried
out by the Group Audit and Risk Management department along with
the Group Treasury department. The Board provides written principles
for overall risk management, as well as policies covering specific areas
such as the use of derivative financial instruments to mitigate foreign
exchange risk. These derivative instruments create an obligation or
right that effectively transfers one or more of the risks associated with
an underlying financial instrument, asset or obligation.
The overall objective of the Board is to set policies that seek to reduce
risk and volatility in financial performance without unduly affecting
competitiveness and flexibility. Further details regarding these policies
are set out below.
(a) Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as
foreign exchange rates, interest rates, securities prices, and coal
prices, will affect the Group’s income or the value of its holdings of
financial instruments.
(i) Foreign exchange risk
The Group operates entirely in Australia and its costs are primarily
denominated in its functional currency, the Australian dollar. Export
coal sales are denominated in US dollars and a strengthening of
the Australian dollar against the US dollar has an adverse impact
on earnings and cash flow settlement. Liabilities for some plant and
equipment purchases and loans are denominated in currencies other
than the Australian dollar and a weakening of the Australian dollar
against other currencies has an adverse impact on earnings and cash
flow settlement.
The hedging policy of the Group aims to protect against the volatility
of cash expenditures or reduced collection in the above mentioned
transactions as well as to reduce the volatility of profit or loss for
retranslation of US dollar denominated loans at each period end.
Hedging through bank issued instruments
Operating foreign exchange risk that arises from firm commitments
or highly probable transactions are managed through the use of bank
issued forward foreign currency contracts and collar option contracts.
The Group hedges a portion of contracted US dollar sales and asset
purchases settled in foreign currencies in each currency to mitigate
the adverse impact on cash flow due to the future rise or fall in
Australian dollars against the relevant currencies.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are
designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in Other
Comprehensive Income in the hedging reserve until the anticipated
underlying transaction occurs. Once the anticipated underlying
transaction occurs, amounts accumulated in equity are recycled
through the profit or loss or recognised as part of the cost of the asset
to which it relates. The ineffective portion of changes in the fair value
of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is
recognised immediately in the profit or loss. In the current period, the
loss relating to the ineffective portion was $nil (2016: $nil).
D – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING