FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      ANNUAL REPORT 2017      107
(i)	 Promissory notes to the value of $674 million were issued to the Group by Yanzhou Coal Mining Company Limited on 22 June 2012 on the
disposal of certain mining assets, including promissory notes of $21 million with regard to the expected tax on the disposal. During 2017
the promissory note with Yanzhou Coal Mining Company Limited was settled against related party loan interest payable by the Company. In
addition as part of the equity raising completed in 1 September 2017 in Note E1 US$28 million was deposited in Yankuang Ozstar (Ningbo)
Trading Co Limited, a related party, and a promissory note was issued to the Company. Management believe that this will be settled within
the next 12 months.
(ii)	 Receivables from joint venture includes a loan provided to Middlemount Coal Pty Ltd (“Middlemount”) with a face value of $350 million. From
1 July 2017 the shareholders of Middlemount agreed to make the loan interest free for 18 months. At 31 December 2017 this loan has been
revalued using the effective interest rate method to $332 million with the difference being recognised as a contribution to the joint venture.
(iii)	 Receivables from other entities represent the Group’s investment in securities issued by Wiggins Island Coal Export Terminal Pty Ltd
(‘WICET’). These include E Class Wiggins Island Preference Securities (‘WIPS’) of $29 million (2016: $29 million) and Gladstone Long Term
Securities (‘GiLTS’) of $32 million (2016: $32 million).
(a) Past due but not impaired
As at 31 December 2017, there were no trade receivables that were past due (2016: nil).
The other classes within trade and other receivables (other than the Middlemount receivable as detailed in (ii) above and $4.1 million of deferred
distributions from WICET) do not contain impaired assets and are not past due. It is expected that these amounts will be received when due.
(b) Foreign exchange and interest rate risk
Information about the Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk and interest rate risk in relation to trade and other receivables is provided in
Note D8.
(c) Fair value and credit risk
Due to the nature of these receivables, their carrying amount is assumed to approximate their fair value.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the end of the reporting period is the carrying amount of each class of receivables mentioned above.
Refer to Note D8 for more information on the risk management policy of the Group and the credit quality of the Group’s trade receivables.
C8 INVENTORIES
Accounting Policy
Coal stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Costs are assigned on a weighted average basis and include direct
materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of variable and fixed overheads on the basis of normal mining capacity. Net realisable
value is the estimated selling price in ordinary course of business less the estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary
to make the sale.
Inventories of auxiliary materials, spare parts, small tools, and fuel expected to be used in production are stated at weighted average cost
after deducting rebated and discounts less allowance, if necessary, for obsolescence.
31 December
2017
$M
31 December
2016
$M
Coal – at lower of cost or net realisable value
87
47
Tyres and spares – at cost
59
27
Fuel – at cost
4
1
150
75
(a) Inventory expense
Write downs of inventories to net realisable value recognised as a provision at 31 December 2017 amounted to $1 million (2016: $1 million).
The movement in the provision has been included in “Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress” in the consolidated
statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income.