NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017
104      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
C4 EXPLORATION AND EVALUATION ASSETS
Accounting Policy
Exploration and evaluation expenditure incurred is accumulated in respect of each separately identifiable area of interest which is at the
individual exploration permit or licence level. These costs are only carried forward where the right of tenure for the area of interest is current
and to the extent that they are expected to be recouped through successful development and commercial exploitation, or alternatively,
sale of the area, or where activities in the area have not yet reached a stage which permits reasonable assessment of the existence of
economically recoverable reserves and active and significant operations in, or in relation to, the area of interest are continuing.
Exploration and evaluation assets acquired in a business combination are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date. The carrying
amount of exploration and evaluation assets are assessed for impairment when facts or circumstances suggest the carrying amount of the
assets may exceed their recoverable amount. A regular review is undertaken for each area of interest to determine the appropriateness of
continuing to carry forward costs in relation to each area of interest. Accumulated costs in relation to an abandoned area are written off in
full in the period in which the decision to abandon the area is made.
Once the technical feasibility and commercial viability of the extraction of mineral resources in an area of interest are demonstrable,
the exploration and evaluation assets attributable to that area of interest are first tested for impairment and then reclassified to
mining tenements.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The application of the Group’s accounting policy for exploration and evaluation expenditure requires judgement in determining whether it
is likely that future economic benefits are likely, which may be based on assumptions about future events or circumstances. Estimates and
assumptions may change if new information becomes available. If after expenditure is capitalised information becomes available suggesting
that the recovery of expenditure is unlikely, the amount capitalised is written off in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Other
Comprehensive Income in the period when the new information becomes available.
31 December
2017
$M
31 December
2016
$M
Opening net book amount
498
591
Acquisition through business combination
108
–
Other additions
3
–
Transfers to mining tenements
(26)
(101)
Transfers – assets under construction
–
8
Transfer to assets classified as held for sale
(18)
–
Closing net book amount
565
498
C – OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES