FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      ANNUAL REPORT 2017      125
This section explains significant aspects of the Group’s structure including interests in other entities, related party transactions, parent entity
information, controlled entities and the deed of cross guarantee.
E1 ACQUISITION OF COAL & ALLIED
Accounting Policies
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for all business combinations, including business combinations involving entities
or businesses under common control, regardless of whether equity instruments or other assets are acquired. The consideration transferred
for the acquisition of a subsidiary comprises the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by
the Group. The consideration transferred also includes the fair value of any contingent consideration arrangement and the fair value of any
pre-existing equity interest in the subsidiary. Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred with the exception of stamp duty. Identifiable
assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are, with limited exceptions, measured initially at
their fair values at the acquisition date.
The excess of the consideration transferred and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value
of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable assets acquired is recorded as
goodwill. If those amounts are less than the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the subsidiary acquired and the measurement of all
amounts has been reviewed, the difference is recognised directly in profit or loss as a gain on acquisition of subsidiaries.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
Acquisition accounting
Accounting for acquisition of businesses requires judgement and estimates in determining the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities.
Techniques used to determine the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities include an income & cost approach for mining tenements and
depreciated replacement cost for the valuation of property, plant and equipment.
The relevant accounting standard allows the fair value of assets acquired to be refined for a window of one year after the acquisition date,
and judgement is required to ensure the adjustments made reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed
as of the acquisition date. The adjustments made on fair value of assets are retrospective in nature and have an impact on goodwill or gain
recognised on acquisition.
Acquisition of Coal & Allied
(a) Summary of acquisition
As announced on 24 January 2017 and as subsequently amended on 26 June 2017, the Company entered into a binding agreement to acquire
100% of the shares in Coal & Allied from wholly owned subsidiaries of Rio Tinto for US$2.69 billion plus an adjustment for net debt and working
capital. US$2.45 billion was paid on completion, plus US$240 million in non-contingent royalty payments over five years from completion. The
Acquisition completed on 1 September 2017 resulting in the Company acquiring (through its ownership of the shares in Coal & Allied) Rio Tinto’s
interest in the Hunter Valley Operations (HVO) and Mount Thorley Warkworth (MTW) mines (an integrated operation of two open-cut mines
located adjacent to each other in the Hunter Valley, NSW), a 36.5% interest in PWCS (the owner of a coal export terminal located at the Port of
Newcastle), as well as other coal exploration projects and landholdings.
(b) Transaction funding and capital structure simplification
On 31 August funding for the acquisition of Coal & Allied was achieved by the Company successfully completing the issue of new fully paid
ordinary shares (“New Shares”) under the pro-rata renounceable entitlement offer (“Entitlement Offer”) and institutional placement (“Placement”)
announced to ASX on 1 August 2017. New Shares under the Entitlement Offer and Placement were issued at the offer price of US$0.10
(“Offer Price”).
Yancoal issued:
––
23,464,929,520 New Shares under the Entitlement Offer, raising gross proceeds of US$2,346,492,952; and
––
1,500,000,000 New Shares under the Placement, raising gross proceeds of US$150,000,000.
In addition, the Company issued 18,000,031,000 New Shares to Yanzhou Coal Mining Co., Ltd (“Yanzhou”) on conversion of all of its
subordinated capital notes (“SCN”) at a conversion price of US$0.10 per New Share, in accordance with the SCN terms of issue. Yancoal has
also issued a further 150,943 New Shares on conversion of 80 other SCNs for which a conversion notice was received, at a conversion price of
US$0.053 per New Share, in accordance with the SCN terms of issue.
E – GROUP STRUCTURE