CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
68      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
An externally facilitated review of individual directors was conducted
in 2016 (in respect of 2015) and an internal review was conducted
in 2018 (in respect of 2017) in accordance with the process
disclosed above.
Performance of senior executives
The CEC and the CEO review the performance of senior executives
annually against appropriate measures as part of the Company’s
performance management system for all managers and staff.
On an annual basis, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee
and subsequently the Board formally reviews the performance of
the CEO and the CEC. The CEO’s performance is assessed against
qualitative and quantitative criteria, including profit performance, other
financial measures, safety performance and strategic actions. The
Nomination and Remuneration Committee also undertakes an annual
formal review of the performance of other members of the Executive
Committee, based on similar criteria. The Board reviews and approves
the annual review of all the members of the Executive Committee
undertaken by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
The performance evaluation for the CEC, CEO and senior executives
took place in 2018 (in respect of 2017) in accordance with the
process disclosed above.
Principle 2: Structure the board to add value
Structure of the Board
Currently, the Board comprises Xiyong Li, Cunliang Lai, Baocai Zhang,
Qingchun Zhao (appointed 28 April 2017), Xiangqian Wu (appointed
28 April 2017), Fuqi Wang, Geoffrey Raby, Gregory Fletcher,
David Moult (appointed 30 January 2018), Helen Gillies (appointed
30 January 2018) and Xing Feng (appointed 15 December 2017).
The following directors resigned from the Board, Yuxiang Wu (resigned
on 28 April 2017), Boyun Xu (resigned 28 April 2017), William Randall
(resigned 9 November 2017), Vincent O’Rourke AM (resigned
30 January 2018) and Huaqiao Zhang (resigned 30 January 2018).
The skills, experience and expertise of each director and the period
that each director has held office is disclosed in the Information on
directors in the Directors’ Report, on page 45.
The Constitution provides that there will be a minimum of 4 and a
maximum of 11 directors of the Company, unless the Company
resolves otherwise at a general meeting.
Chairman of the Board
The current Chairman, Xiyong Li, was nominated by the Company’s
major shareholder, Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. Ltd (“Yanzhou”).
The Chairman leads the Board and is responsible for the efficient
organisation and conduct of the Board’s functioning. The Chairman
ensures that directors have the opportunity to contribute to Board
deliberations. The Chairman regularly communicates with the CEC
and CEO and to review key issues and performance trends. The
Chairman, together with the Co-Vice Chairmen, Cunliang Lai and
Baocai Zhang, also represent the Company in the wider community.
Board Committees
The Board may from time to time establish appropriate committees
to assist in the discharge of its responsibilities. The Board has
established the following standing Board committees:
––
Audit and Risk Management Committee;
––
Health, Safety and Environment Committee;
––
Nomination and Remuneration Committee; and
––
Strategy and Development Committee.
These Board committees review matters on behalf of the Board and,
as set out in the relevant Charter:
––
refer matters to the Board for a decision, with a recommendation
from the committee; or
––
determine matters (where the committee acts with delegated
authority), which the committee then reports to the Board.
The purpose of each of the Board committees is outlined below.