FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      ANNUAL REPORT 2017      127
E2 INTERESTS IN OTHER ENTITIES
Accounting Policies
(i) Associates
Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control or joint control, generally accompanying a
shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of
accounting, after initially being recognised at cost. The Group’s investments in associates includes goodwill identified on acquisition.
The Group’s share of its associates’ post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in profit or loss, and its share of post-acquisition other
comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income. The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against
the carrying amount of the investment. Dividends receivable from associates are recognised as a reduction in the carrying amount of
the investment.
(ii) Joint arrangements
A joint arrangement is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties undertake economic activities under joint control. Joint
control exists only when the strategic, financial and operational policy decisions relating to the activities of the joint arrangement require the
unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
A joint arrangement is either a joint operation or a joint venture. The structure of each joint arrangement is analysed to determine whether
the joint arrangement is a joint operation or a joint venture. The classification of a joint arrangement is dependent on the rights and
obligations of the parties to the arrangement.
Joint operations
The Group recognises its proportional right to the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of joint operations and its share of any
jointly held or incurred assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. These have been incorporated in the financial statements under the
appropriate headings.
Joint ventures
A joint venture is structured through a separate vehicle and the parties have rights to the net assets of the arrangement. Joint ventures are
accounted for using the equity method where the assets and liabilities will be aggregated into one line item on the face of the consolidated
balance sheet, after adjusting for the share of profit or loss after tax, which is shown as a separate line item on the face of the Consolidated
Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income, after adjusting for amounts recognised directly in equity.
When the Group’s share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the joint venture (which includes any long-term interests
that, in substance, form part of the Group’s net investment in the joint venture), the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has
incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the
joint ventures. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of the joint ventures have been changed where necessary, to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by
the Group.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
There is significant judgement in assessing whether the Group controls Watagan. Even though it holds 100% of the nominal share capital.
An assessment has been made that in accordance with the accounting standards the Group does not control Watagan as it is not able to
direct the relevant activities of Watagan and accounts for its interest in Watagan as an associate.