NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017
122      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
D8 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(b) Credit risk
Credit risk is managed on a Group basis. Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, favourable derivative financial instruments and
deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to wholesale and retail customers, including outstanding receivables
and committed transactions. For banks and financial institutions, only independently rated parties with a minimum rating of ‘A’ are accepted. If
wholesale customers are independently rated, these ratings are used. Otherwise, if there is no independent rating, the marketing department
assesses the credit quality of the customer, taking into account its financial position, past experience and other factors.
Credit risk in trade receivables is managed in the following ways:
(i)	 payment terms and credit limits are set for individual customers;
(ii)	 a risk assessment process is used for all customers; and
(iii)	 letters of credit are required for those customers assessed as posing a higher risk.
The maximum exposure to credit risk on financial assets which have been recognised in the balance sheet is their carrying amount less
impairment provision, if any as set out below.
31 December
2017
$M
31 December
2016
$M
Cash and cash equivalents
207
222
Trade and other receivables
1,131
842
1,338
1,064
Included in trade and other receivables are significant customers located in Singapore, Japan, Australia, and Hong Kong that account for 30%,
23%, 14% and 8% of trade receivables respectively (2016: Australia 46%, Singapore 22%, South Korea 7% and China 4%).
At 31 December 2017, no derivative financial instruments were outstanding (2016: net liability position). As a result no credit risk has been
disclosed above.
(c) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk includes the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group will be impacted in the
following ways:
(i)	 will not have sufficient funds to settle transactions on the due date;
(ii)	 will be forced to sell financial assets at a value which is less than what they are worth; or
(iii)	 may be unable to settle or recover a financial asset at all.
Liquidity risk is managed by maintaining sufficient cash and liquid deposit balances and having readily accessible standby facilities in place in
accordance with the Board’s risk management policy. Details regarding finance facilities are set out in Note D2.
Maturities of financial liabilities
The tables below analyse the Group’s financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on their contractual maturities for:
(a)	 all non-derivative financial liabilities, and
(b)	 net and gross settled derivative financial instruments for which the contractual maturities are essential for an understanding of the timing of
the cash flows.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows including interest payments. Balances due within 12 months
equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.
D – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING