Changing the mining
game and leading the
way as Australia’s largest
pure-play coal producer.
Listed on the Australian Securities Exchange, Yancoal Australia
Ltd (“Yancoal”) is the country’s largest pure-play coal producer
and a major contributor to the continued economic growth
of regional New South Wales and Queensland.
In 2017 Yancoal produced 23.4 million tonnes of saleable
(equity share) thermal and metallurgical coal for export into
international markets.
Operating five sites and managing four others across New South
Wales, Queensland and Western Australia, Yancoal employs
approximately 5,000 people plus contractors and service
providers, sourcing the majority of its people from the local
communities in which it operates.
Yancoal also maintains financial interests in three of the
country’s largest ports.
Yancoal’s New South Wales region includes the mines of
Hunter Valley Operations, Mount Thorley Warkworth, Moolarben
and Stratford Duralie, with the Queensland region comprising
of Yarrabee and the Middlemount joint venture.
Yancoal also manages the Cameby Downs and Premier coal
mines in Queensland and Western Australia respectively on
behalf of its majority shareholder Yanzhou Coal Mining Company
Limited (“Yanzhou”)1 and the Ashton and Austar mines in New
South Wales on behalf of Watagan Mining Company Pty
Ltd (“Watagan”)2.
Listed on the Australian Securities Exchange, Yancoal had
43,959,446,612 shares on issue, as at 31 December 2017. The
two largest shareholders were Yanzhou with 65.5% holding and
Cinda International HGB Investment (UK) Limited with 16.7%.
1	Yanzhou is a China-based, integrated mining company with interests in coal, coal
chemicals, power generation and mechanical and electrical equipment manufacturing.
Its shares are listed on the Hong Kong and Shanghai stock exchanges. The State-owned
Yankuang Group Company Limited has a 51.59% direct shareholding in Yanzhou.
2	Watagan Mining Company Pty Ltd is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Yancoal Australia
Ltd, controlled by a consortium of financiers consisting of Industrial Bank Co. Ltd,
BOCI Financial Products Limited and United NSW Energy Limited. Effective 31 March
2016, Yancoal ceased to control Watagan and remains the exclusive provider of mine
management, marketing, infrastructure and other corporate support services for the
Ashton, Austar and Donaldson assets.
ANNUAL REPORT 2017         1