FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      ANNUAL REPORT 2017      99
Investment in assets drives the current and future performance of
the Group. This section includes disclosures for property plant and
equipment, mining tenements, exploration and evaluation assets,
intangible assets, royalty receivable, cash and cash equivalents,
trading assets, inventories and provisions contained within the
Balance Sheet.
C1 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Accounting Policies
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less
accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. The cost
includes expenditure directly attributable to the acquisition of
the items and the estimated restoration costs associated with
the asset.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or
recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is
probable that future economic benefits associated with the item
will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured
reliably. The carrying amount of any component accounted for
as a separate asset is derecognised when replaced. All other
repairs and maintenance are charged to profit or loss during the
reporting period in which they are incurred.
Mine development assets include all mining related development
expenditure that is not included under land, buildings and plant
and equipment.
The open pit operations capitalise mine development costs
including both direct and indirect costs incurred to remove
overburden and other waste materials to enable access to the
coal seams during the development of a mine before commercial
production commences, and during future development of
new open pit mining areas. Amortisation of those capitalised
costs over the life of the operation commences at the time that
commercial production begins for the mine for the new open pit
mining area.
Underground mine development costs include both direct and
indirect mining costs relating to underground longwall panel
development and mains development (primary access/egress
roads for the mine).
Mains development costs are capitalised net of the coal sales
revenue earned from coal extracted as part of the mains
development process. These capitalised costs are amortised over
the life of the mine if the roads service the entire mine or over the
life of the panels accessible from those mains if shorter than the
mine life.
A regular review is undertaken of each area of interest to
determine the appropriateness of continuing to carry forward
mine development costs in relation to that area of interest.
Accumulated costs in relation to an abandoned area are written
off in full in the period in which the decision to abandon the area
is made.
Open cut
During the commercial production stage of open pit operations,
production stripping costs comprises the accumulation of
expenses incurred to enable access to the coal seam, and
includes direct removal costs (inclusive of an allocation of
overhead expenditure) and machinery and plant running costs.
Production stripping costs are capitalised as part of an asset, if
it can be demonstrated that it is probable that future economic
benefits will be realised, the costs can be reliably measured and
the entity can identify the component of the ore body for which
access has been improved. The asset is called “stripping activity
asset” included in mine development.
The stripping activity asset is amortised on a systematic basis,
over the expected useful life of the identified component of
the ore body that becomes more accessible as a result of the
stripping activity. The units of production method shall be applied.
Production stripping costs that do not satisfy the asset
recognition criteria are expensed.
Depreciation and amortisation
The depreciable amount of all fixed assets, excluding freehold
land, is depreciated on a straight-line or units of production basis
over the asset’s useful life to the Group based on life of mine
plans and Joint Ore Reserves Committee “JORC” estimated
reserves, commencing from the time the asset is held ready for
use. Leased assets are depreciated over the asset’s useful life
or over the shorter of the asset’s useful life and the lease term
if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain
ownership at the end of the lease term. Leasehold improvements
are depreciated over the period of the lease or estimated useful
life, whichever is the shorter, using the straight-line method.
For some assets, the useful life of the asset is linked to the level
of production. In such cases, depreciation is charged on a units
of production basis based on the recoverable reserves or the
remaining useful hours. Alternatively, the straight-line method
may be used where this provides a suitable alternative because
production is not expected to fluctuate significantly from one year
to another.
The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation
method are reviewed at the end of each annual reporting
period and any change in estimate is taken into account in the
determination of remaining depreciation charges.
The estimated useful lives are as follows:
––
Buildings 10 – 25 years
––
Mine development 10 – 40 years
––
Plant and equipment 2.5 – 40 years
––
Leased plant and equipment 2 – 20 years
An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its
recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than
its estimated recoverable amount.
Any gain or loss arising on the disposal of an item of property,
plant and equipment is determined as the difference between
the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is
recognised in profit or loss.
See Note C3 for further details on impairment of assets.
C – OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES