FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      ANNUAL REPORT 2017      145
Reference and Title
Details of New Standard/Amendment/Interpretation
Application date
for the Group
AASB 2017-6
Amendments to Australian Accounting Standards – Prepayment
Features with Negative Compensation
This Standard amends AASB 9 Financial Instruments to permit entities to measure at amortised cost
or fair value through other comprehensive income particular financial assets that would otherwise have
contractual cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest but do not meet that condition
only as a result of a prepayment feature. This is subject to meeting other conditions, such as the nature of
the business model relevant to the financial asset. Otherwise, the financial assets would be measured at
fair value through profit or loss. The Standard also clarifies in the Basis for Conclusion that, under AASB
9, gains and losses arising on modifications of financial liabilities that do not result in derecognition should
be recognised in profit or loss.
Impact:
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of AASB 2017-6 will have no impact on the recognition of
amounts in the Group’s financial statements, but there will be additional disclosures required.
1 January 2019
AASB 2017-7
Amendments to Australian Accounting Standards – Long-term Interests
in Associates and Joint Ventures
This Standard amends AASB 128 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures to clarify that an entity
is required to account for long term interests in an associate or joint venture, which in substance form
part of the net investment in the associate or joint venture but to which the equity method is not applied,
using AASB 9 Financial Instruments before applying the loss allocation and impairment requirements in
AASB 128.
Impact:
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of AASB 2017-7 will have no impact on the recognition of
amounts in the Group’s financial statements, but there will be additional disclosures required.
1 January 2019
Not yet issued
by the AASB
Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2015-2017 Cycle
The amendments clarify certain requirements in:
a)	 IFRS 3 Business Combinations and IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements – previously held interest in a
joint operation
b)	 IAS 12 Income Taxes – income tax consequences of payments on financial instruments
classified as equity
c)	 IAS 23 Borrowing Costs – borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
1 January 2019
AASB
Interpretation 23,
and relevant
amending
standards
Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments
The Interpretation clarifies the application of the recognition and measurement criteria in AASB 112
Income Taxes when there is uncertainty over income tax treatments. The Interpretation specifically
addresses the following:
a)	 Whether an entity considers uncertain tax treatments separately
b)	 The assumptions an entity makes about the examination of tax treatments by taxation authorities
c)	 How an entity determines taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits
and tax rates
d)	 How an entity considers changes in facts and circumstances.
The Group is currently adhering to this standard and there is no material impact expected on the Group’s
financial report.
1 January 2019