Yancoal’s Health, Safety and
Environment Committee sets the
direction for the Company’s continued
commitment to operating its mines
to the highest safety and environmental
standards in accordance with
legislative requirements.
Working with Yancoal’s executive and senior
management teams, Yancoal’s Health, Safety
and Environment Committee is chaired and led
by members of the Yancoal Board, providing
external oversight of the Company’s operating
and reporting standards.
Together, management and the Committee
continue to set the direction for a culture of
continued improvement, with the leadership,
capabilities, systems and reporting procedures
needed to be a leader in safety and
environmental management.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
Each mine implements proactive strategies
to update and monitor its safety standards,
behaviours and reporting to ensure operations
are aligned and focused on achieving
Yancoal’s goal of zero harm.
Taking responsibility for the safety of all
employees and visitors seriously, Yancoal
continues to implement robust safety and
risk awareness and management practices
across all areas of its operations.
Recent site initiatives include the successful
introduction and application of the Critical
Controls initiative throughout the Yancoal
Group, requiring every employee to
understand and be aware of the critical
risks in their workplace.
With all sites undergoing regular training
sessions focused on specific Critical Controls
unique to their underground or open cut
environments, the initiative calls for personal
accountability in every action.
Under the initiative, sites continue to share
their reporting and training practices,
enabling Yancoal to act on its commitment to
constant improvement and never compromise
on safety.
While the business has improved its Total
Recordable Injury Frequency Rates (TRIFR)
and Lost Time Injury Frequency Rates (LTIFR)
across its operations over the past six years,
a slight increase has occurred in the rolling
12-month TRIFR and LTIFR rates for 2017,
mostly attributable to the injury outcomes
associated with the underground operations
(including the managed Watagan assets and
recent addition of the new Moolarben
underground mine).
No significant events were recorded at
Yancoal’s operations for 2017.
ENVIRONMENT
Operating to stringent environmental
management conditions, including the on
and off-site management and monitoring
of potential dust and noise impacts, Yancoal
continues to work with State and Federal
Government departments to ensure full
transparency in its environmental reporting.
Each Yancoal operation also implements
robust rehabilitation plans, working to minimise
potential impacts on the local environment and
ultimately return completed mining areas to
quality pastoral and woodland for future use.
Leading edge sustainability practices ensure
Yancoal is instituting and updating its water
management, land use and monitoring plans
throughout every stage of the mining process,
from prior-to-commencement, until well after
eventual close.
Total seeding and planting across all
operations in 2017 is 285 hectares. Total new
disturbance across all operations in 2017
is 442 hectares.
As of 31 December 2017, Yancoal has seeded
and planted 50% of disturbed areas across
all operations.
16         YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
HEALTH, SAFETY AND
THE ENVIRONMENT