NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017
92      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
B – PERFORMANCE
B3 OTHER INCOME
Accounting Policy
Gain on acquisition is recognised in line with the accounting for business combinations (refer Note E1).
31 December
2017
$M
31 December
2016
$M
Gain on remeasurement of royalty receivable
8
–
Net gain on foreign exchange*
–
12
Receipts from joint venture participant
5
–
Impairment reversal of mining tenements
100
–
Gain on acquisition of subsidiaries
177
–
Sundry income
4
3
294
15
*
There is no impact on the conversion of US dollar denominated interest-bearing liabilities (2016: nil).
B4 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Accounting Policies
(i) Employee benefits expenses
Employee benefits are expensed as the related service by the employee is provided and includes both equity and cash based payment
transactions. Employee benefits recognised in the profit or loss are net of recoveries.
(ii) Superannuation
Contributions made by the Group to defined contribution superannuation funds are recognised as an expense in the period in which they
are incurred.
(iii) Wages and salaries, annual leave and sick leave
Liabilities for employee benefits for wages, salaries, annual leave and accumulating sick leave that are expected to be wholly settled within
12 months of the reporting date represent present obligations resulting from employees’ services provided to the reporting date and are
calculated at undiscounted amounts based on wage and salary rates that the Group expects to pay as at the reporting date including
related on costs, such as superannuation, workers compensation, insurance and payroll tax and are included in trade and other payables.
Non-accumulating, non-monetary benefits such as housing and cars are expensed by the Group as the benefits are used by the employee.
Employee benefits payable later than 12 months have been measured at the present value of the estimated future cash outflows to be
made for those benefits. In determining the liability, consideration is given to employee salary and wage increases and the probability that
the employee may satisfy any vesting requirements. Those cash flows are discounted using corporate bonds with terms to maturity that
match the expected timing of cash flows attributable to employee benefits.
Additional Long Service Leave payments are made monthly to the Coal Mining Industry (Long Service Leave Funding) Corporation based
on the eligible monthly payroll of employees involved in the mining of black coal. Reimbursement is sought from the fund when long service
leave is paid to employees involved in the mining of black coal. An asset for the amount recoverable from the Coal Mining Industry (Long
Service Leave Funding) Corporation is recognised in trade and other receivables.
These employee benefits are presented as current provisions as the Group has no unconditional right to deferred settlement for at least
12 months after the end of the reporting period.