DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
44      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
Watagan-controlled5
Ashton (Yancoal 100% ownership) achieved total ROM coal
production of 2.8Mt (2016 2.4Mt) and saleable coal production of
1.2Mt (2016 1.1Mt) for the year.
Austar (Yancoal 100% ownership) achieved total ROM coal production
of 2.0Mt (2016 1.2Mt) and saleable coal production of 1.9Mt (2016
1.1Mt).
On 25 August, Austar received approval for its Modification to the
Bellbird South Consent, allowing for potential access to an additional
3.7Mt of ROM coal.
As previously announced, mining ceased at Donaldson’s Abel
underground mine in June 2016.
Infrastructure
Following the acquisition of Coal & Allied, Yancoal increased its
share of ownership of Port Waratah Coal Services, supporting the
immediate increase in production output from the Mount Thorley
Warkworth and Hunter Valley Operations assets.
With sufficient allocation to meet existing and potential brownfield
needs, Yancoal exports 100% of its product through five eastern
Australian ports into the Asian market.
Newcastle Coal Infrastructure Group (“NCIG”) 27%
Yancoal continues to be one of five company shareholders involved
in the NCIG export coal terminal in Newcastle, New South Wales.
Yancoal has a 27% ownership with an allocation of approximately
19.6Mt per annum (100% basis).
The Moolarben Coal mine is the largest of Yancoal’s Hunter based
mines to use the terminal.
Port Waratah Coal Services (“PWCS”) 36.5%
Yancoal has take-or-pay contracts with PWCS for the export of
coal through the terminals at Newcastle, with a port allocation of
approximately 35.1Mt (100% basis).
Wiggins Island Coal Export Terminal (“WICET”) 9.4%
Yancoal is one of five owners of WICET, which has a capacity of
27.0Mt per annum. Yancoal’s contracted capacity is 1.5Mt per
annum, allocated to the Yarrabee Mine.
Rail
Yancoal is supported by the following rail networks to transport
product from mine to port:
––
The NSW Hunter Valley Coal Chain supports the Moolarben,
Austar, Ashton, Stratford Duralie and Donaldson operations, with
coal transported to the Port of Newcastle;
––
The QLD Blackwater System supports the Yarrabee operation,
transporting coal to the Port of Gladstone;
––
The QLD Goonyella System supports the Middlemount operation,
with coal transported to the Port of Hay Point and Abbot Point
Coal Terminal.
Take-or-Pay
Yancoal significantly reduced its take-or-pay exposure from the year
prior (2016: $76 million) to $65 million in rail and port commitments
in excess of planned sales, $4.7 million of which is attributable to the
acquired Coal & Allied assets from 1 September 2017.
The Yancoal logistics team continues to implement strategic measures
to reduce take-or-pay exposure across the Group by trading between
sites and with other users.
5	 The Watagan-controlled Ashton, Austar and Donaldson operations remain 100% Yancoal owned subsidiaries.
Community and Environment
Yancoal’s Health, Safety and Environment Committee sets the
direction for the Company’s continued commitment to operating its
mines to the highest environmental standards and in accordance with
legislative requirements.
Each mine implements proactive strategies to update and monitor its
environmental management systems and practices to meet its mine
plan approvals and individual licenses to operate.
Operating to stringent environmental management conditions,
including the on and off-site management and monitoring of potential
dust and noise impacts, Yancoal continues to work with State and
Federal Government departments to ensure full transparency in its
environmental reporting.
In 2017, Yancoal invested more than $544,216.00 via its community
support program into local and regional health, environmental,
education and sporting initiatives capable of making a positive
difference in the regions in which it operates.
Yancoal continues to work co-operatively with its community
stakeholders, relying upon community consultative committees, local
newsletters, local media, community days and site-specific websites
to help ensure they are engaged and informed of relevant matters
related to nearby operations.
ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION
Yancoal is subject to significant environmental regulation. Its energy
regulation activities are set out below.
Greenhouse gas and energy data reporting requirements
The National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act 2007 Cth
(“NGER”) requires Yancoal to report its annual greenhouse gas
emissions and energy use. The Group has implemented systems
and processes for the collection and calculation of the data required
and submitted its 2016/2017 s19 Energy & Emissions Report to the
Federal Clean Energy Regulator on 31 October 2017.
The Group continues to investigate and implement energy efficiency
opportunities and share initiatives between sites.
SIGNIFICANT CHANGES IN THE STATE OF AFFAIRS
There have been no significant changes to the state of affairs during
the financial year that significantly affected the operations of the
Group, the results of those operations or the state of affairs of Yancoal
or economic entity.
MATTERS SUBSEQUENT TO THE END OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR
As announced 31 January 2018, at the request of certain eligible
holders, 1,606 Subordinated Capital Notes (“SCNs”) issued by
Yancoal SCN Limited (ASX: YCN) (“Yancoal SCN”) were converted,
effective 31 January 2018, into fully paid ordinary shares in Yancoal
Australia Ltd, in accordance with the terms of issue of the SCNs.
Yancoal SCN also redeemed any outstanding SCNs and was
subsequently removed from the official list of the Australian Securities
Exchange on 1 February 2018, after the Face Value and Final
Distribution was paid to holders.