DIRECTORS’ REPORT
42      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
The Directors present their report on the consolidated entity (“Yancoal”
or “the Group”) consisting of Yancoal Australia Ltd (“the Company”)
and the entities it controlled at the end of, or during, the year ended
31 December 2017.
DIRECTORS
The following persons were Directors of Yancoal Australia Ltd during
the financial year and until the date of this report. Directors were in
office for this entire period unless otherwise stated.
Xiyong Li
Cunliang Lai
Baocai Zhang
Fuqi Wang
Gregory Fletcher
Geoffrey Raby
Boyun Xu (resigned 28 April 2017)
Yuxiang Wu (resigned 28 April 2017)
Qingchun Zhao (appointed 28 April 2017)
Xiangqian Wu (appointed 28 April 2017)
William Randall (resigned 9 November 2017)
Xing Feng (appointed 15 December 2017)
Vincent O’Rourke (resigned 30 January 2018)
Huaqiao Zhang (resigned 30 January 2018)
David Moult (appointed 30 January 2018)
Helen Gillies (appointed 30 January 2018)
SECRETARY
The name of the Secretary in office during the whole of the financial
year and up to the date of this report is as follows:
Laura Ling Zhang
REVIEW OF OPERATIONS
Safety
No significant events were recorded at Yancoal’s mine sites for the
period, with sites continuing to operate to legislative and safety
standards. Yancoal remains committed to proactively improving
the systems and processes employed across sites to educate,
communicate and record employee safety initiatives.
Under the direction of the Health, Safety and Environment Committee,
Yancoal continues to build the leadership, capabilities, systems and
reporting procedures required to deliver on its objectives of achieving
zero harm at its operations.
Financial performance
Yancoal achieved a total operating EBIT of $732 million before tax, up
$693 million on the year prior.
Yancoal’s financial improvement is directly attributable to the strategic
acquisition of 100% of Coal & Allied Industries Limited (“Coal & Allied”)
from Rio Tinto for US$2.69 billion in value, as at 1 September 2017,
1	 Yancoal’s interest in HVO will reduce to 51% on completion of the Glencore Transaction. Completion of the Glencore Transaction is subject to a number of conditions
precedent that have not been satisfied as at the date of this announcement.
resulting in a significant increase in production output at a time of
global coal market price improvements.
Increased production output at a time of industry-high benchmark
prices for semi-soft coking and thermal coals led Yancoal’s recovery to
announce a profit after tax of $229 million from revenue of $2.6 billion
(before tax) for the full year ended 31 December 2017.
Yancoal conducted a pro-rata renounceable entitlement offer
(“Entitlement Offer”) of 23,464,929,520 fully paid ordinary shares to
raise US$2.35 billion, and an associated placement of 1,500,000,000
fully paid ordinary shares (“the Placement”) to raise a further
US$150 million, to support the funding of the Coal & Allied acquisition.
Yancoal maximised sales volumes and new blending opportunities
across assets, benefitting from a full quarter’s attributable production
from the acquired Coal & Allied assets, post-completion in
September 2017.
Post-acquisition earnings enabled the Company to recover both
stamp duty and transaction costs, with Yancoal subsequently paying
down US$150 million in loans to Bank of China.
Throughout 2017, Yancoal continued to implement cost reduction
strategies across all operations, addressed existing take-or-pay
arrangements, and blended products across the New South
Wales operations (both managed and operated) to meet new
market opportunities.
Corporate activities
On 1 September 2017, Yancoal became Australia’s largest pure-
play coal producer, effectively doubling its production output and
increasing its coal product offerings via the completion of the strategic
acquisition of 100% of Coal & Allied Industries Limited (“Coal & Allied”)
from Rio Tinto for US$2.69 billion in value.
Combining the world-class assets of Coal & Allied’s Mount Thorley
Warkworth and Hunter Valley Operations with the Company’s existing
portfolio, the acquisition enables the maximising of synergies between
Yancoal assets and supports the Company’s vision for continued
market growth.
Yancoal’s binding agreement for US$2.69 billion in value comprised
US$2.45 billion cash payable on completion, US$240 million in future
non-contingent royalty payments over five years following completion,
and a coal price linked contingent royalty.
On completion, the Company acquired the following interests in two
of the country’s leading tier-one large-scale, long-life and low-cost
coal mines located in the Hunter Valley region of New South Wales, as
well as required export infrastructure:
––
a 67.6% interest in the Hunter Valley Operations mining complex
(“HVO”)1;
––
an 80.0% interest in the Mt Thorley mine and a 55.6% interest in
the Warkworth mine (together, “MTW”); and
––
a 36.5% interest in Port Waratah Coal Services (“PWCS”), a coal
export terminal located at the Port of Newcastle.
On 27 July 2017, Yancoal entered into a binding agreement to
establish a 51:49 unincorporated joint venture with Glencore Coal Pty
Ltd (“Glencore”) in relation to Hunter Valley Operations (“HVO JV”),
following completion of Yancoal’s acquisition of Coal & Allied.