DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
50      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
Boyun Xu
Executive Director (26 June 2012 – 28 April 2017). ME, EMBA.
Experience and expertise
Mr Xu joined Yancoal in 2005 and held the position of Deputy
Managing Director of Yancoal until acquisition of Felix Resources.
Before the merger with Gloucester Coal Ltd, he held the position
of General Manager of Business Development of Yancoal. In 2012,
Mr Xu was appointed a Director of Yancoal and Executive General
Manager of the Australian subsidiaries of Yancoal International
(Holding) Co. Ltd. Mr Xu has over 30 years of international
management and engineering experience in the coal mining industry.
Prior to joining Yancoal he served as Deputy Chief Engineer in
Yankuang Group Company Limited in China and China Business
Manager in Minarco Asia Pacific Pty Ltd in Australia.
Mr Xu holds an EMBA degree from University of Technology, Sydney,
a Masters degree in Mining Engineering from University of New
South Wales and a Bachelor of Mining Engineering from Shandong
University of Science and Technology in China.
Other current key directorships
Director of Premier Coal Limited
Director of Yancoal International (Sydney) Pty Ltd
Director of Yancoal SCN Limited
Director of Yankuang Bauxite Resources Pty Ltd
Former directorships in last three years
None
Special responsibilities
Member of the Executive Committee
Interests in shares and options
None
William Randall
Non-Executive Director (26 June 2012 – 9 November 2017). BBus
Experience and expertise
Mr Randall started his career with Noble Group in Australia in 1997,
transferring to Asia in 1999 where he established Noble Group
Limited’s coal operations, mining and supply chain management
businesses. He served as a Director of Noble Energy Inc in 2001,
before being appointed Global Head of Coal and Coke in 2006 and
became a member of the Noble Group internal management board
in 2008. Mr Randall subsequently assumed the title of Head of Hard
Commodities in 2012. He became an Executive Director of Noble
Group Limited in February 2012 prior to which he was Head of
Energy Coal Carbon Complex. Mr Randall was appointed a Director
of Yancoal after the merger of Yancoal and Gloucester Coal Ltd in
June 2012.
Mr Randall holds a Bachelor degree in Business from the Australian
Catholic University, majoring in international marketing and finance.
Other current key directorships
Director of Noble Group Limited
Director of various subsidiaries of Noble Group Limited Subsidiaries
Former directorships in last three years
Director of Blackwood Corporation Limited
Alternate Director of East Energy Resources Limited
Alternate Director of Cockatoo Coal Limited
Special responsibilities
Member of Nomination and Remuneration Committee
Interests in shares and options
None
Reinhold Schmidt
Alternate Director for Boyun Xu (on 13 January 2017). MEng (Mineral
Economics)
Experience and expertise
Reinhold Schmidt has over 20 years’ experience in the mining
industry. Prior to joining the Company, Mr Schmidt was the Chief
Operating Officer of Xstrata Coal Queensland and previously the
Executive General Manager for Xstrata Coal’s Wandoan Project.
He was also formerly the President of the Colombian coal assets
of Glencore.
Other current key directorships
Director of various subsidiaries of Yancoal Australia Ltd
Former directorships in last three years
Director of Yancoal SCN Limited
Alternate director of Bauxite Resources Limited (resigned on
21 January 2016)
Special responsibilities
Chief Executive Officer of Yancoal Australia Ltd
Member of the Executive Committee
Interests in shares and options
3,453,158 fully paid Yancoal ordinary shares in Yancoal Australia Ltd
COMPANY SECRETARY
Laura Ling Zhang
(6 September 2005 – Current). BA, MA, AGIA, GAICD
Laura Ling Zhang was appointed on 6 September 2005 as
Company Secretary and subsequently as Executive General
Manager – Corporate Services for the Company in June 2012.
She oversees the Company’s corporate governance, legal issues,
corporate compliance, investor relations activities and shareholder
communications. Ms Zhang arrived in Australia in 2004 as one of the
founding executives for the Company and has played a key role in
each of the Company’s acquisitions. She brings valuable experiences
and contribution to the Company through her understanding and
experiences of both Australian and Chinese corporate governance
principles and business practices, engagement with the Board and
senior management team, as well as cross-cultural communication
and international enterprise management. She is studying the EMBA
at Australia Graduate School of Management (AGSM).