NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017
144      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Reference and Title
Details of New Standard/Amendment/Interpretation
Application date
for the Group
AASB 2014-1
Amendments to Australian Accounting Standards (Part E)
Part E of this Standard defers the application date of AASB 9: Financial Instruments (December 2010)
to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. This part also makes consequential
amendments to hedge accounting disclosures set out in AASB 7: Financial Instruments: Disclosures,
and to AASB 132: Financial Instruments: Presentation to permit irrevocable designation of “own use
contracts” as measured at fair value through profit or loss if the designation eliminates or significantly
reduces an accounting mismatch.
Impact:
The Group is currently adhering to this standard and there is no material impact expected on the Group’s
financial report.
1 January 2018
AASB 2014-10
Amendments to Australian Accounting Standards – Sale or Contribution
of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture
This Standard amends AASB 10: Consolidated Financial Statements with regards to a parent losing
control over a subsidiary that is not a “business” as defined in AASB 3 to an associate or joint venture,
and requires that:
a)	 a gain or loss (including any amounts in other comprehensive income (OCI)) be recognised only to the
extent of the unrelated investor’s interest in that associate or joint venture;
b)	 the remaining gain or loss be eliminated against the carrying amount of the investment in that
associate or joint venture; and
c)	 any gain or loss from remeasuring the remaining investment in the former subsidiary at fair value also
be recognised only to the extent of the unrelated investor’s interest in the associate or joint venture. The
remaining gain or loss should be eliminated against the carrying amount of the remaining investment.
The application of AASB 2014-10 will result in a change in accounting policies for transactions of loss of
control over subsidiaries (involving an associate or joint venture) that are businesses per AASB 3 for which
gains or losses were previously recognised only to the extent of the unrelated investor’s interest.
Impact:
The Group is currently adhering to this standard and there is no material impact expected on the Group’s
financial report.
1 January 2018
AASB 2016-5
Amendments to Australian Accounting Standards – Classification and
Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions
This standard provides guidance on treatment of vesting conditions in a cash-settled share based
payment arrangement that are similar to what has been prescribed for equity settled share based
payment arrangements. It also clarifies that, subject to certain exceptions, share based payment
transactions with net-settlement feature on account of withholding tax obligations should be classified in
entirety as equity settled share based payment.
Impact:
Since the Group does not have a policy of cash-settled share based awards or net-settlement features in
equity settled plans, this standard is not expected to impact the Group’s financial statements.
1 January 2018
AASB
Interpretation 22
Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration
The amendment to AASB 107 introduces additional disclosures that will enable users of financial
statements to evaluate changes in liabilities arising from financing activities. The amendment requires
disclosure of changes arising from:
––
cash flows, such as drawdowns and repayments of borrowings, and
––
non-cash changes, such as acquisitions, disposals and unrealised exchange differences.
Impact:
The Group is currently adhering to this standard and there is no material impact expected on the Group’s
financial report.
1 January 2018
F – OTHER INFORMATION