CONTINUING CONNECTED TRANSACTIONS
The Group has entered into certain transactions with connected
persons of the Company which constitute continuing connected
transactions of the Company under the HK Listing Rules. These
non‑exempt continuing connected transactions, in respect of which
the Company has complied with the relevant requirements under
Chapter 14A of the HK Listing Rules, are set out below.
1. Sale of Coal by the Group
From time to time, Yanzhou (the controlling shareholder of the
Company who is interested in approximately 62.26% of the shares
in the Company) and/or its subsidiaries (excluding the Group)
may purchase coal from the Group primarily for their own trading
purposes. The Company entered into a framework coal sales
agreement with Yanzhou (the “Yanzhou Framework Coal Sales
Agreement”) on 8 October 2018 to govern all existing and future
sales of coal by the Group to Yanzhou and/or its subsidiaries
(excluding the Group). The Yanzhou Framework Coal Sales
Agreement provides that all transactions in relation to the sale of
coal by the Group to Yanzhou and/or its subsidiaries (excluding the
Group) must be (i) in the ordinary and usual course of business of the
Group, (ii) on an arm’s length basis, (iii) on normal commercial terms
with the sale price being determined with reference to market indices,
adjusted for coal characteristics and an optional analysis to ensure
the price is negotiated on an arm’s length basis and (iv) in compliance
with, amongst other things, the HK Listing Rules and applicable laws.
The Yanzhou Framework Coal Sales Agreement expires on
31 December 2020 and is automatically renewable for successive
periods of three years thereafter, subject to compliance with the
then applicable provisions of the HK Listing Rules, unless terminated
earlier by not less than three months’ prior notice or otherwise
in accordance with the terms of the Yanzhou Framework Coal
Sales Agreement.
The maximum annual transaction amount to be received by the
Group from Yanzhou and/or its subsidiaries (excluding the Group) for
the three years ending 31 December 2018, 2019 and 2020 will not
exceed US$250.0 million, US$250.0 million and US$250.0 million,
respectively. During the year ended 31 December 2018, the
transaction amount received by the Group was approximately
US$171.6 million, which was below the annual cap.
2. Purchase of Coal by the Group
The Group has purchased and may, from time to time, purchase coal
from Yanzhou and/or its subsidiaries, in particular Australian-based
subsidiaries of Yanzhou holding mines which are managed by the
Group, for back-to-back on sale to end customers in order to fulfil
customer requirements and maintain customer relationships.
The Company entered into a framework coal purchase agreement
with Yanzhou (the “Framework Coal Purchase Agreement”) on
8 October 2018 to govern all existing and future purchases of coal
by the Group from Yanzhou and/or its subsidiaries (excluding the
Group). The Framework Coal Purchase Agreement provides that
all transactions in relation to the purchase of coal by the Group
from Yanzhou and/or its subsidiaries (excluding the Group) must
be (i) in the ordinary and usual course of business of the Group,
(ii) on an arm’s length basis, (iii) on normal commercial terms with
the sale price being determined with reference to industry index
prices and coal quality characteristics under the respective contracts
and (iv) in compliance with, amongst other things, the HK Listing
Rules and applicable laws.
The Framework Coal Purchase Agreement expires on 31 December
2020 and is automatically renewable for successive periods of three
years thereafter, subject to compliance with the then applicable
provisions of the HK Listing Rules, unless terminated earlier by not
less than three months’ prior notice or otherwise in accordance with
the terms of the Framework Coal Purchase Agreement.
The maximum annual transaction amount to be paid by the Group
to Yanzhou and/or its subsidiaries (excluding the Group) for the three
years ending 31 December 2018, 2019 and 2020 will not exceed
US$65.0 million, US$65.0 million and US$65.0 million, respectively.
During the year ended 31 December 2018, the transaction amount
paid by the Group was approximately US$20.8 million, which was
below the annual cap.
3. Provision of Management Services by the Company
As one of the conditions imposed by the Foreign Investment Review
Board of the Australian Government in relation to the merger of the
Company with Gloucester in 2012, a management and transitional
services agreement (the “Management and Transitional Services
Agreement”) was entered into between the Company and the
following entities (the “Existing Recipients”), comprising (i) Yanzhou,
(ii) Yancoal Technology Development Holdings Pty Ltd, (iii) Premier Coal
Holdings Pty Ltd, (iv) Athena Holdings Pty Ltd, (v) Tonford Holdings Pty
Ltd, (vi) Wilpeena Holdings Pty Ltd and (vii) Yancoal Energy Pty Limited,
in 2012, pursuant to which the Company has agreed to provide to the
Existing Recipients each of the Services (as described below) in respect
of certain assets owned by the Existing Recipients. Each of the Existing
Recipients is a wholly owned subsidiary of Yanzhou (other than Yanzhou
itself). Yanzhou is a Controlling Shareholder of the Company and is
interested in approximately 62.26% of the Shares in the Company.
On 7 December 2016, a deed of variation, accession and termination
agreement of the Management and Transitional Services Agreement
was entered into among the Existing Recipients, Yankuang Resources
Pty Ltd (“Yankuang Resources”), Yankuang (Australia) Metal Mining
Pty Ltd. (“Yankuang (Australia) Metal Mining”, together with
Yankuang Resources and the Existing Recipients, the “Recipients”)
and the Company, pursuant to which Yankuang Resources and
Yankuang (Australia) Metal Mining became parties to the Management
and Transitional Services Agreement and are entitled to all rights and
benefits of an Existing Recipient under the Management and Transitional
Services Agreement. Yankuang Resources and Yankuang (Australia)
Metal Mining are both wholly owned subsidiaries of Yankuang.
Yankuang is, directly and indirectly, interested in approximately
52.86% of the shares in Yanzhou and is a controlling shareholder
of the Company.
Details of the terms of the Management and Transitional Services
Agreement are set out below.
(I) Services
The Services provided to each Recipient and each of their respective
subsidiaries (excluding the Group and Yanzhou) include:
(i) 	 General Corporate Services, which comprise HR services, treasury
services, financial accounting/reporting services, compliance
services, marketing and logistic services, corporate communications
services, government and industry relations services, business
development services and other general corporate services;
(ii) 	 Operations Services, which comprise carrying out exploration
programs, preparing business plans, monitoring and reporting on
environmental issues, using all reasonable endeavours to meet
business KPIs, preparing plans of operations as may be required
by laws and other operational services; and
(iii) 	IT Services, which comprise the granting of the permission to
use the Company’s hardware or software and the provision of IT
support services.
During the term, each party may request that the Company provide
an additional service or the Company may change or modify the
ADDITIONAL HKEx COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS
178      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD