NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018
104      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
A – BASIS OF PREPARATION
These consolidated financial statements and notes are for
the consolidated entity consisting of Yancoal Australia Ltd
(“Company” or “parent entity”) and its subsidiaries (“the Group”).
These general purpose financial statements have been prepared
in accordance with the Australian Accounting Standards and
interpretations issued by the Australian Accounting Standards Board
and the Corporations Act 2001. Yancoal Australia Ltd is a for-profit
entity for the purpose of preparing the financial statements.
The financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance
with a resolution of the Directors on 25 February 2019.
(i) Compliance with IFRS
The consolidated financial statements of the Group also comply
with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as issued
by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”).
(ii) Subsidiaries
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has
rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has
the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control
is transferred to the Group. They are de-consolidated from the date
that control ceases.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for business
combinations by the Group. Intercompany transactions, balances
and unrealised gains on transactions between the Group companies
are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides
evidence of the impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting
policies of subsidiaries are aligned to ensure consistency with the
policies adopted by the Group.
(iii) Significant accounting policies
Significant accounting policies have been included in the
relevant notes to which the policies relate, and other significant
accounting policies are discussed in Note F6. These policies
have been consistently applied to all the years presented,
unless otherwise stated.
(iv) Historical cost convention
These financial statements have been prepared on an accrual
basis and under the historical cost convention, as modified by the
revaluation of available for sale financial assets and financial assets
and liabilities (including derivative instruments) at fair value through
profit or loss.
(v) Auditor sign-off – unqualified and unmodified
The independent auditor’s report of these consolidated financial
statements is unqualified and unmodified. Refer to page 172 for
further details.
(vi) Rounding of amounts
The Company is of a kind referred to in ASIC Legislative Instrument
2016/191, issued by the Australian Securities and Investments
Commission, relating to the “rounding off” of amounts in the financial
statements. Amounts in the financial statements have been rounded
off in accordance with that legislative instrument to the nearest million
dollars, or in certain cases, the nearest dollar.
(vii) New and amended standards adopted by the Group
Effective from 1 January 2018 the Group adopted new standards
including AASB 9 Financial Instruments and AASB 15 Revenue from
Contracts with Customers. Refer to Note F7 for details.
(viii) Impact of standards issued but not yet applied by the Group
Australian Accounting Standards and Interpretations issued but not
yet applicable for the year ended 31 December 2018 that have not
been applied by the Group are disclosed in Note F8.
(ix) Early adoption of standards
Certain new accounting standards and interpretations have been
published that are not mandatory for 31 December 2018 reporting
periods and have not been early adopted by the Group. The Group’s
assessment of the impact of these new standards and interpretations
is set out in Note F8.
(x) Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements requires the use of certain
critical accounting estimates and judgements that involve a higher
degree of judgement or complexity. It also requires management
to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s
accounting policies.
The Directors evaluate estimates and judgements incorporated
into these financial statements based on historical knowledge and
best available current information. Estimates assume a reasonable
expectation of future events and are based on current trends and
economic data, obtained both externally and within the Company.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal
the related actual results.
Details of critical accounting estimates and judgements can be found
in the notes to which they relate and include:
Taxation
Note B6
Mining tenements
Note C2
Impairment of assets
Note C3
Exploration and evaluation assets
Note C4
Royalty receivable
Note C9
Provisions
Note C11
Business combinations and disposals
Note E1
Control of Watagan
Note E2