NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018
166      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
F6 OTHER SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(b) Financial instruments (continued)
(i) Financial assets (continued)
Measurement and recognition of ECL (continued)
Where lifetime ECL is measured on a collective basis to cater for
cases where evidence of significant increases in credit risk at the
individual instrument level may not yet be available, the financial
instruments are grouped on the following basis:
––
nature of financial instruments;
––
past-due status;
––
nature, size and industry of debtors; and
––
external credit ratings where available.
The grouping is regularly reviewed by management to ensure
the constituents of each group continue to share similar credit
risk characteristics.
If the Group has measured the loss allowance for a financial
instrument at an amount equal to lifetime ECL in the previous
reporting period, but determines at the current reporting date that the
conditions for lifetime ECL are no longer met, the Group measures the
loss allowance at an amount equal to 12-month ECL at the current
reporting date.
The Group recognises an impairment gain or loss in profit or loss
for all financial instruments with a corresponding adjustment to their
carrying amount through a loss allowance account.
Impairment of trade receivables
The Group has applied the simplified approach to measuring expected
credit losses to trade and other receivables using a lifetime expected
loss allowance. The Group has also used the practical expedient of a
provisions matrix using fixed rates to approximate the expected credit
losses. These provisions are considered representative across all
business and geographic segments of the Group based on historical
credit loss experience and considered future information.
(ii) Financial liabilities and equity instruments
Debt and equity instruments issued by the Group are classified as
either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance
of the contractual arrangements and the definitions of a financial
liability and an equity instrument.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest
in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Financial liabilities
The Group’s financial liabilities include trade and other payables,
non-contingent royalty payable, and interest-bearing liabilities which
are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at
amortised cost, using the effective interest method.
Effective interest method
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised
cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the
relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly
discounts estimated future cash payments (including all fees paid
or points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective
interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts)
through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate,
a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Interest expense is recognised on an effective interest basis.
Equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest
in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity
instruments issued by the Company are recognised at the proceeds
received, net of direct issue costs.
SCNs issued by the Group, which include no contractual obligation
for the Group to deliver cash or another financial asset to the holders
or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with the holders
under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Group,
are classified as equity instruments and are initially recorded at the
proceeds received.
Accounting for derivative financial instruments and
hedging activities
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date when a
derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at
their fair value at the end of the reporting period. The resulting gain or
loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is
designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the
timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the
hedge relationship. The Group designates certain derivatives as either:
(i) hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities (fair value
hedges); or (ii) hedges of highly probable forecast transactions (cash
flow hedges).
The fair values of various derivative instruments used for hedging
purposes are disclosed in Note D9. The full fair value of a hedging
derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the
remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months and as
a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged
item is less than 12 months.
At the inception of the hedging relationship the Group documents
the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged
item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for
undertaking various hedge transactions. Furthermore, at the inception
of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether
the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly
effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the
hedged item.
(i) Cash flow hedge
The effective portions of changes in the fair value of derivatives that
are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised
in other comprehensive income and accumulated in cash flow
hedge reserve. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion
is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income and
accumulated in cash flow hedge reserve in equity are reclassified to
profit or loss in the periods when the hedged items are recognised
in profit or loss.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the
hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold,
terminated, or exercised, or when it no longer qualifies for hedge
accounting. Any gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive
income and accumulated in equity at that time remains in equity and
is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised
in profit or loss. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected
to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is recognised
immediately in profit or loss.
(ii) Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting and those not
designated as hedging instruments
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not
qualify for hedge accounting and those not designated as hedges are
recognised immediately in profit or loss.
F – OTHER INFORMATION