NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018
164      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
F – OTHER INFORMATION
F5 EVENTS OCCURRING AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD
No matters or circumstances have occurred subsequent to the end of
the financial year which have significantly affected, or may significantly
affect, the operations of the Group, the results of those operations or
the state of affairs of the Group in subsequent financial periods except
for the following matters:
––
Exercise of the Watagan bond put option by BOCI to Yankung as
described in Note E2(b).
––
On 25 February 2019, Yancoal announced a final dividend totalling
AU$377 million (28.6 cents per share), with a record date of 11
March 2019. The final dividend will be paid on 30 April 2019.
––
As announced 25 February 2019, Yancoal pre-paid a further
US$500 million in loans, reducing its total debt liabilities by
US$1.4 billion since September 2017. The pre-payment consists
of US$250 million in pre-paid loans from Bank of China and China
Construction Bank, and US$250 million in pre-paid Yanzhou-
related loans.
F6 OTHER SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
(a) Foreign currency transactions
(i) Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s
entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic
environment in which the entity operates (“the functional currency”).
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Australian
dollars, which is the Group’s functional and presentation currency,
except for Yancoal SCN Limited which has US dollars as its
functional currency.
For the purpose of presenting these consolidated financial statements,
the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are
translated into Australian dollars using exchange rates prevailing at the
end of the reporting period. Income and expense items are translated
at the average exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates
fluctuated significantly during that period, in which case the exchange
rates at the dates of the transactions are used. Exchange differences
arising, if any, are recognised in other comprehensive income and
accumulated in equity.
(ii) Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional
currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the
transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the
settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end
exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in
foreign currencies are recognised in profit or loss, except when they
are deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges.
Non-monetary items that are measured at fair value in a foreign
currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when
the fair value was determined. Translation differences on assets and
liabilities carried at fair value are reported as part of the fair value gain
or loss. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical
cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at
the date of the transaction.
(b) Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when a Group
entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair
value. Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition
or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities are added to
or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial
liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition.
(i) Financial assets
All regular way purchases or sales of financial assets are recognised
and derecognised on a trade date basis. Regular way purchases or
sales are purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of
assets within the time frame established by regulation or convention in
the marketplace.
All recognised financial assets are subsequently measured in their
entirety at either amortised cost or fair value, depending on the
classification of the financial assets.
Classification of financial assets
Debt instruments that meet the following conditions are subsequently
measured at amortised cost:
––
the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective
is to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cash flows;
and
––
the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified
dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and
interest on the principal amount outstanding.
Amortised cost and effective interest method
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised
cost of a debt instrument and of allocating interest income over the
relevant period.
For financial instruments the effective interest rate is the rate that
exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts (including all fees
and points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective
interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts)
excluding ECL, through the expected life of the debt instrument, or,
where appropriate, a shorter period, to the gross carrying amount of
the debt instrument on initial recognition.
The amortised cost of a financial asset is the amount at which the
financial asset is measured at initial recognition minus the principal
repayments, plus the cumulative amortisation using the effective
interest method of any difference between that initial amount and the
maturity amount, adjusted for any loss allowance. On the other hand,
the gross carrying amount of a financial asset is the amortised cost of
a financial asset before adjusting for any loss allowance.
Interest income is recognised using the effective interest method
for debt instruments measured subsequently at amortised cost.
For financial instruments interest income is calculated by applying
the effective interest rate to the gross carrying amount of a financial
asset, except for financial assets that have subsequently become
credit-impaired. For financial assets that have subsequently become
credit-impaired, interest income is recognised by applying the
effective interest rate to the amortised cost of the financial asset. If, in
subsequent reporting periods, the credit risk on the credit-impaired
financial instrument improves so that the financial asset is no longer
credit-impaired, interest income is recognised by applying the effective
interest rate to the gross carrying amount of the financial asset.
Interest income is recognised in profit or loss and is included in the
“other revenue” line item.
Financial assets at FVTPL
Financial assets that do not meet the criteria for being measured at
amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive income
(”FVTOCI”) are measured at FVTPL. Specifically:
––
Investments in equity instruments are classified as at FVTPL,
unless the Group designates an equity investment that is neither
held for trading nor contingent consideration arising from a
business combination as at FVTOCI on initial recognition.