NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      ANNUAL REPORT 2018      111
B4 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Accounting Policies
(i) Employee benefits expenses
Employee benefits are expensed as the related service by the employee is provided and include both equity and cash-based payment
transactions. Employee benefits recognised in the profit or loss are net of recoveries.
(ii) Superannuation
Contributions made by the Group under Australian legislation to contribute 9.5% of employees’ salaries and wages to the employees’
defined contribution superannuation funds are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
(iii) Wages and salaries, annual leave and sick leave
Liabilities for employee benefits for wages, salaries, annual leave and accumulating sick leave that are expected to be wholly settled within
12 months of the reporting date represent present obligations resulting from employees’ services provided to the reporting date and are
calculated at undiscounted amounts based on wage and salary rates that the Group expects to pay as at the reporting date including
related on-costs, such as superannuation, workers’ compensation, insurance and payroll tax and are included in trade and other payables.
Non-accumulating, non-monetary benefits such as housing and cars are expensed by the Group as the benefits are used by the employee.
Employee benefits payable later than 12 months have been measured at the present value of the estimated future cash outflows to be
made for those benefits. In determining the liability, consideration is given to employee salary and wage increases and the probability that
the employee may satisfy any vesting requirements. Those cash flows are discounted using corporate bonds with terms to maturity that
match the expected timing of cash flows attributable to employee benefits.
Additional Long Service Leave payments are made monthly to the Coal Mining Industry (Long Service Leave Funding) Corporation
based on the eligible monthly payroll of employees involved in the mining of black coal. Reimbursement is sought from the fund when long
service leave is paid to employees involved in the mining of black coal. An asset for the amount recoverable from the Coal Mining Industry
(Long Service Leave Funding) Corporation is recognised in trade and other receivables.
These employee benefits are presented as current provisions as the Group has no unconditional right to deferred settlement for at least
12 months after the end of the reporting period.
(iv) Equity-settled share-based payments
The grant date fair value of equity-settled share-based payment awards granted to employees is recognised as an expense, with a
corresponding increase in equity, over the vesting period of the awards. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect
the number of awards for which related service and non-market performance conditions are expected to be met, such that the amount
ultimately recognised is based on the number of awards that meet the related service and non-market performance conditions at the
vesting date. For share-based payment awards with market performance conditions, the grant date fair value of the share-based payment
is measured using a Black-Scholes option pricing model to reflect such conditions and there is no true-up for differences between expected
and actual outcomes.
(a) Employee benefits
31 December
2018
$M
31 December
2017
$M
Employee benefits
464
281
Share-based payments
16
–
Superannuation contributions
38
21
Total employee benefits
518
302
During 2018 $1 million of employee benefits were capitalised (2017: $17 million).
(b) Key Management Personnel compensation
Refer to the Remuneration Report contained in the Directors’ Report for details of the remuneration paid or payable to each member of the
Group’s Key Management Personnel (“KMP”) for the year ended 31 December 2018.
The total of remuneration paid to KMP of the Company and the Group during the year was as follows:
31 December
2018
31 December
2017
Short-term employee benefits
5,901,640
9,265,818
Post-employment benefits
149,534
149,362
Other long-term benefits
2,742,559
1,950,142
8,793,733
11,365,322