NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018
140      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
D9 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including foreign exchange risk, price risk and interest rate risk), credit
risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise
potential adverse effects on the financial performance of the Group. The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange
contracts to hedge certain risk exposures. Derivatives are exclusively used for hedging purposes and not as speculative instruments. The Group
uses different methods to measure different types of risk to which it is exposed. These methods include sensitivity analysis in the case of foreign
exchange, interest rate risk and other price risks, and ageing analysis for credit risk.
The Group holds the following financial instruments:
(i)	 Cash and cash equivalents;
(ii)	 Trade and other receivables (including WIPS);
(iii)	 Trade and other payables;
(iv)	 Interest-bearing liabilities, including bank loans and finance leases;
(v)	 Available for sale investments;
(vi)	 Royalty receivable;
(vii)	Non-contingent royalty receivable;
(viii)	Non-contingent royalty payable;
(ix)	 Derivative financial instruments; and
(x)	 Interest-bearing loan from associate.
31 December
2018
$M
31 December
2017
$M
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
1,031
207
Loans and receivables – amortised cost
Trade and other receivables
844
1,131
Non-contingent royalty receivable
15
–
Interest-bearing loan to associates
835
712
Assets at fair value through profit and loss
Royalty receivable
193
199
WIPS
–
29
2,918
2,278
Financial liabilities
Amortised cost
Trade and other payables
840
758
Interest-bearing liabilities
4,124
4,723
Non-contingent royalty payable
52
160
5,016
5,641
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for determining risk management objectives and policies and risk management is carried
out by the Group Audit and Risk Management department along with the Group Treasury department. The Board provides written principles
for overall risk management, as well as policies covering specific areas such as the use of derivative financial instruments to mitigate foreign
exchange risk. These derivative instruments create an obligation or right that effectively transfers one or more of the risks associated with an
underlying financial instrument, asset or obligation.
The overall objective of the Board is to set policies that seek to reduce risk and volatility in financial performance without unduly affecting
competitiveness and flexibility. Further details regarding these policies are set out below.
(a) Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, securities prices, and coal prices, will affect
the Group’s income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments.
(i) Foreign exchange risk
The Group operates entirely in Australia and its costs are primarily denominated in its functional currency, the Australian dollar. Export coal sales
are denominated in US dollars and a strengthening of the Australian dollar against the US dollar has an adverse impact on earnings and cash
flow settlement. Liabilities for some plant and equipment purchases and loans are denominated in currencies other than the Australian dollar
and a weakening of the Australian dollar against other currencies has an adverse impact on earnings and cash flow settlement.
The hedging policy of the Group aims to protect against the volatility of cash expenditures or reduced collection in the abovementioned
transactions as well as to reduce the volatility of profit or loss for retranslation of US dollar denominated loans at each period end.
D – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING