CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT    ANNUAL REPORT 2018      81
Nomination and appointment of Directors
The Board considers that Board succession planning, and
the progressive and orderly renewal of the Company’s Board
membership, are important parts of the governance process.
The Board’s policy for the selection, appointment and re-appointment
of Directors is to ensure that the Board possesses an appropriate
range of skills, experience and expertise to enable the Board to carry
out its responsibilities most effectively. As part of this appointment and
re-appointment process, the Directors consider Board renewal and
succession plans and whether the Board‘s size and composition is
conducive to making appropriate decisions.
At the time of appointment of a new Non-Executive Director, the
key terms and conditions relevant to that person’s appointment, the
Board’s responsibilities and the Company’s expectations of a Director
are set out in a letter of appointment. The Company has implemented
an induction program, facilitated by the Company Secretary, through
which new Non-Executive Directors are introduced to the Company’s
operations and are familiarised with the Company’s strategy, culture
and core values.
The Board has established a Nomination and Remuneration
Committee to make recommendations to the Board on matters such
as succession plans for the Board, the size and composition of the
Board, potential candidates for appointment to the Board, re-election
of Directors, Board induction and Board evaluation procedures. The
structure and membership of the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee is described further under Principles 2 and 8.
The Board recognises that people are its most important asset and is
committed to the maintenance and promotion of workplace diversity.
Whilst traditionally experience as a senior Executive or Director of a
large organisation with international operations is a prerequisite for
candidature, in accordance with the Diversity Policy, the Board also
seeks skills and experience in the following areas:
––
marketing and sales;
––
policy and regulatory development and reform;
––
health, safety and environment and social responsibility; and
––
human resources.
In identifying candidates, the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee considers and selects nominees by reference to a number
of selection criteria including the skills, expertise and background
that add to and complement the range of skills, expertise and
background of the existing Directors, the capability of the candidate
to devote the necessary time and commitment to the role, potential
conflicts of interest and independence, and the extent to which the
candidate would fill a present need on the Board. Where appropriate,
the appropriate checks are undertaken prior to a Director being
appointed. The mix of skills currently held by the Board is set out
under Principle 2.
The role, rights and responsibilities and membership requirements
of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, together with
the selection criteria for candidates for the Board, are set out in the
Nomination and Remuneration Committee Charter which can be
found within the Corporate Governance section of the Company’s
website. In carrying out its duties, the Committee has regard to
the ASX Principles and the principles in the HK Code, in particular,
principles A.3 and A.4.
Shareholder approval is required for the appointment of Directors.
However, Directors may appoint other Directors to fill a casual
vacancy where the number of Directors falls below the constitutional
minimum number of Directors and in order to comply with any
applicable laws, regulations or the ASX Listing Rules. If a Director
is appointed to fill a casual vacancy in these circumstances, the
approval of members must be sought at the next general meeting.
No Director may hold office without re-election beyond the third
annual general meeting (AGM) following the meeting at which the
Director was last elected or re-elected. The Company provides all
material information in its possession in relation to Directors standing
for election or re-election in the Notice of Meeting provided to
shareholders prior to the AGM.
Each Non-Executive Director has been appointed for an initial term of
not more than three years (and will be subject to retirement by rotation
at least once every three years under Rule 8.1 of the Company’s
Constitution, pending re-election by the shareholders at an annual
general meeting). Each Independent Non-Executive Director has been
appointed for an initial term of not more than three years and will be
subject to retirement by rotation at least once every three years under
Rule 8.1 of the Company’s Constitution, pending re-election by the
shareholders at an annual general meeting.
To the extent that the ASX Listing Rules require an election of
Directors to be held and no Director would otherwise be required
under the Company’s Constitution to submit for election or re-election
at an AGM, the Director who has been the longest in office since
their last election or appointment must retire at the AGM. As between
Directors who were last elected or appointed on the same day, where
it is not agreed between the relevant Directors, the Director to retire
must be decided by lot.
The process for appointment, retirement and re-election of Directors
is set out in the Company’s Constitution which can be found within
the Corporate Governance section of the Company’s website.
Diversity
The Company recognises that people are its most important asset
and is committed to the maintenance and promotion of workplace
diversity. The Company has adopted a Diversity Policy, approved
by the Board, to actively facilitate a more diverse and representative
management and leadership structure. The Diversity Policy is available
in the Corporate Governance section of the Company’s website.
Annually, the Board establishes measurable objectives with the
assistance of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee with a
view to progressing towards a balanced representation of women
at a Board and senior management level.
The measurable objectives and performance against them are
reviewed annually by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee
as part of its annual review of the effectiveness of the Diversity Policy.
The measurable objectives adopted for 2018 and the Company’s
performance against the measurable objectives are outlined in the
table below: