MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS      ANNUAL REPORT 2018      51
Price Risk
The price risk of the Group includes coal price risk.
The Group does not enter into commodity contracts other than to
meet the Group’s expected usage and sales requirements; and such
contracts are not settled net. The royalty receivable from Middlemount
is exposed to fluctuations in coal price. The Group currently does not
have any derivative hedges in place against the movement in the spot
coal price.
See Note D9(d)(iii) to the financial statements in this report for the
royalty receivable coal price sensitivity analysis.
Coal sales are predominately provisionally priced initially. Provisionally
priced sales are those for which price finalisation, referenced to
the relevant index, is outstanding at the reporting date. Provisional
pricing mechanisms embedded within these sales arrangements
have the character of a commodity derivative and are carried at fair
value through profit and loss as part of trade receivables. The final
sales price is determined normally seven to 90 days after delivery
to the customer. At 31 December 2018, there were $234 million
of provisionally priced sales. If prices were to increase by 10%
provisionally priced sales would increase by $23 million.
Interest Rate Risk
The Group is subject to interest rate risk that arises from borrowings
and cash and cash equivalents. Generally, no variable interest is
receivable or payable on the Group’s trade and other receivables or
payables where applicable as they are fixed in nature and, therefore,
they are not exposed to the interest rate risk.
The Group’s cash flow interest rate risk for assets primarily arises
from cash at bank and deposits subject to market bank rates. Floating
rate borrowings bearing LIBOR rates are re-set on a quarterly basis.
See Note D9(a)(iii) to the financial statements in this report for a
sensitivity analysis of the impact of hypothetical increases and
decreases in interest rates.
Credit Risk
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on
its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
As at 31 December 2018 the Group’s maximum exposure to credit
risk which will cause a financial loss to the Group due to failure to
discharge an obligation by the counterparties and financial guarantees
provided by the Group arises from the carrying amount of the
respective recognised financial assets as stated in the Consolidated
balance sheet and the amount of contingent liabilities in relation to
financial guarantees issued by the Group.
In order to minimise credit risk, management has delegated a team
responsible for determination of credit limits, credit approvals and
other monitoring procedures to ensure that follow-up action is
taken to recover overdue debts. In addition, the Group reviews the
recoverable amount of each individual trade debt at the end of the
reporting period to ensure that adequate impairment losses are made
for irrecoverable amounts. In this regard, the Directors consider that
the Group’s credit risk is significantly reduced. The Group maintains
its cash and cash equivalents with reputable banks. Therefore, the
Directors consider that the credit risk for such amounts is minimal.
See Note D9(b) to the financial statements in this report for further
details on the Group’s credit risk exposure.
Liquidity Risk
Liquidity risk includes the risk that the Group will not be able to meet
its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group will be impacted in
the following ways:
(i)	 will not have sufficient funds to settle transactions on the
due date;
(ii)	 will be forced to sell financial assets at a value which is less than
what they are worth; or
(iii)	 may be unable to settle or recover a financial asset at all.
Liquidity risk is managed by maintaining sufficient cash and liquid
deposit balances and having readily accessible standby facilities in
place in accordance with the Board’s risk management policy.
See Note D9(c) to the financial statements in this report for further
details on the remaining contractual maturity for the Group’s
financial liabilities.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
The contingent liabilities of the Group as at 31 December 2018
comprise (i) $875 million of bank guarantees comprising $471 million
of performance guarantees provided to third parties and $404 million
of guarantees provided in respect of the cost of restoration of certain
mining leases given to government departments as required by
statute with respect to the Group’s owned and managed mines;
(ii) a letter of support provided to the Middlemount Coal Pty Limited
joint venture; and (iii) a number of claims that have been made against
the Group, including in respect of personal injuries, and in relation to
contracts which Group members are party to as part of the Group’s
day to day operations.
See Note D8 to the financial statements in this report for further details
on the Group’s contingent liabilities.
CHARGES ON ASSETS
The Group has a Syndicated Bank Guarantee Facility provided by
a syndicate of seven Australian and International banks totalling
A$1 billion. As at 31 December 2018 the facility was drawn to
A$808 million.
During 2018 five of the seven banks also provided a Syndicated Term
Loan facility of US$300 million which was fully drawn during the year.
The Syndicated Bank Guarantee and Term Loan facilities are
both secured by the assets of the consolidated group of Yancoal
Resources Ltd and Coal & Allied Industries Ltd (both wholly
owned subsidiaries of Yancoal Australia Ltd) with a carrying value
of $9,486 million as at 31 December 2018.
FUTURE PROSPECTS
Yancoal will maintain strong cost discipline, with 2019 cash costs
(excluding government royalties) expected to remain flat at around
A$62.5/t (2018: A$63/t).
For 2019 Yancoal is targeting a dividend payout of 50% of net profit
after income tax (adjusted for the impact of foreign exchange hedge
reserve movements and any other non-operating items).
2019 guidance for saleable coal production is approximately 35 million
tonnes (attributable). Expected 2019 capital expenditure is around
A$285 million (attributable).