CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
86      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
Committee
Purpose
Membership
Strategy and
Development
Committee
The committee assists the Board in its oversight and review of the Company’s
strategic initiatives, including:
––
merger and acquisition proposals;
––
major capital markets transactions;
––
significant investment opportunities; and
––
proposals to dispose of significant Company assets.
During the financial year ended 31 December 2018, work performed by the
committee included:
––
consideration of capital management issues, including share consolidation,
early debt repayment and dividend decisions;
––
evaluation of various acquisition opportunities (including acquisition of a
further joint venture interest in Moolarben) and organic growth opportunities
including possible MTW underground mine development;
––
consideration of proposed HK Listing; and
––
review of Stakeholder Engagement Strategy and investor relations issue.
Independent Non-Executive Directors:
Geoffrey Raby (appointed 8 June 2018)
Non-Executive Directors:
Baocai Zhang – Chair
Qingchun Zhao
Fuqi Wang
Xing Feng (appointed 6 February 2018)
Huaqiao Zhang
(resigned 30 January 2018)
(minimum of three Directors)
Independent
Board
Committees
An Independent Board Committee is established by the Board as and when
required to manage any related party transactions.
A previously constituted Independent Board Committee met on various
occasions during 2018 for the purposes of considering transactions between
or involving the Company and its major shareholder, Yanzhou. In each case, the
Independent Board Committee comprised at least three independent Directors.
An Independent Board Committee is
composed of independent Non-Executive
Directors who do not have a material
interest in the relevant transactions.
The primary role of the Strategy and Development Committee is
to assist the Board in its oversight and review of the Company’s
strategic initiatives. The other standing Board committees referred
to above are discussed further below under Principle 4 (Audit
and Risk Management Committee), Principle 7 (Health, Safety
and Environment Committee) and Principle 8 (Remuneration and
Nomination Committee). The Charters of each of these standing
Board committees (which were revised in October 2018 to provide
for relevant provisions of the HK Listing Rules) are available within the
Corporate Governance section of the Company’s website.
The number of meetings held by each committee during 2018 and
each member’s attendance at these meetings are set out in the
Directors’ Report on page 64.
Other committees may be established by the Board as and
when required.
Membership of the Board committees is based on the needs of
the Company, relevant regulatory requirements, and the skills and
experience of individual Directors.
Director independence
In determining the composition of the Board, the Company has
regard to the balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors
to ensure that there is a strong independent presence on the Board
able to exercise independent judgement.
The Board comprises 11 Directors, of whom four hold their
positions in an independent non-executive capacity (based on the
independence standard disclosed below). The Company’s current
Independent Directors are Geoffrey Raby, Gregory Fletcher, David
Moult (appointed 30 January 2018) and Helen Gillies (appointed
30 January 2018). During their appointment, Vincent O’Rourke AM
(resigned 30 January 2018) and Huaqiao Zhang (resigned 30 January
2018) were each deemed to be Independent Directors.
The Board has assessed the independence of each of the
Non‑Executive Directors (including the Chairman) in light of their
interests and relationships. A majority of the Board are not considered
Independent Directors having regard to their affiliation with the
Company’s major shareholder, Yanzhou, and accordingly the
Company does not comply with Recommendation 2.4 of the ASX
Recommendation. However, the Board considers that its composition
appropriately represents the interests of its shareholders including
its major shareholder, Yanzhou, and that the Board has put in place
appropriate policies and procedures to guide the Board and senior
Executives in circumstances where conflicts of interest may arise and
in its dealings with Yanzhou, including establishing the Independent
Board Committee referred to above.
To help ensure that any conflicts of interest are identified, the
Company has put in place a standing agenda item at all meetings
of the Board and its committees to provide the Directors with the
opportunity of declaring any conflicts of interest in the subject matter
of the proposed resolutions made within the meeting.
To assist the Board in making independent judgements, the Board
Charter sets out the procedure by which the Board collectively, and
each individual Director, can seek independent professional advice,
at the Company’s expense.
Each Independent Director must regularly provide the Board with
all information relevant to their continued compliance with the
independence standard. The independence of Directors will be
reviewed by the Board on a regular basis with assistance from the
Nomination and Remuneration Committee. The Nomination and
Remuneration Committee will also assist the Board with regular
evaluation of the performance of the Board, Board committees and
individual Directors.
The Independent Non-Executive Directors have confirmed their
independence in accordance with Rule 3.13 of the HK Listing Rules,
and the Company has received from each of the Independent Non-
Executive Directors an annual confirmation of his/her independence
as required under Rule 3.13 of the HK Listing Rules. Accordingly, the
Company considers that the Independent Non-Executive Directors
continue to be independent.