INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT      ANNUAL REPORT 2018      177
•
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on
the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast
signifi cant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty
exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the fi nancial
statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit
evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the
Group to cease to continue as a going concern.
•
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the fi nancial statements, including the disclosures,
and whether the fi nancial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that
achieves fair presentation.
•
Obtain suffi  cient appropriate audit evidence regarding the fi nancial information of the entities or business
activities within the Group to express an opinion on the fi nancial statements. We are responsible for the direction,
supervision and performance of the Group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and
signifi cant audit fi ndings, including any signifi cant defi ciencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
The auditing standards require that we comply with relevant ethical requirements relating to audit engagements.
We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to
bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most signifi cance in
the audit of the fi nancial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these
matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in
extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the
adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefi ts of such
communication.
Report on the Remuneration Report
Opinion on the Remuneration Report
We have audited the Remuneration Report included in pages 64 to 77 of the directors’ report for the year ended 31
December 2018. In our opinion, the Remuneration Report of Yancoal Australia Ltd, for the year ended 31 December
2018, complies with section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001.
Responsibilities
The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation and presentation of the Remuneration Report
in accordance with section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
Remuneration Report, based on our audit conducted in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards.
ShineWing Australia
Chartered Accountants
R Blayney Morgan
Partner, Sydney
Monday, 25 February 2019
184