CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT    ANNUAL REPORT 2018      95
Title risks
Exploring or mining for coal is generally illegal without a tenement
granted by the State Governments. The grant and renewal of
tenements is subject to a regulatory regime and each tenement
is subject to certain conditions. There is no certainty that an
application for grant or renewal of a tenement will be granted at all
or on satisfactory terms or within expected timeframes. Further, the
conditions attached to tenements may change. The permitting rules
are complex and may change over time, making the title holder’s
responsibility to comply with the applicable requirements more
onerous, more costly or even impossible, thereby precluding or
impairing continuing or future mining operations. There is a risk that
the Company may lose title to any of its granted titles if it is unable
to comply with conditions or if the land subject to the title is required
for public purposes. There is also a risk that a tenement may not
be granted from any applications for renewals of tenements or for
new tenements.
Obtaining mining tenements often involves first obtaining consents
from landholders and other third parties, some of which may in
certain circumstances have a right of veto, as well as approvals
(such as environmental approvals). There is a risk that the requisite
consents and approvals may not be able to be obtained on time
or on acceptable commercial terms, or may not be able to be
obtained at all, and consequently have an adverse financial effect
on the Company.
Native Title
It is possible that, in relation to tenements which we have an interest in
or will in the future acquire, there may be areas over which legitimate
native title rights of Aboriginal Australians may exist. Where the grant
or renewal of a tenement is in respect of land in relation to which
native title may exist, the Company will need to comply with the Native
Title Act 1993 (Cth) in order for the tenement to be validly granted.
Compliance with the NTA (and the relevant native title process to
be followed for the grant of the tenement e.g. the right to negotiate
process) may be prolonged or delayed, and substantial compensation
may be payable as part of any agreement reached, including for
the extinguishment or impairment of the relevant native title rights
and interests.
The existence or determination of native title may, therefore, affect the
existing or future activities of the Company and impact on its ability
to develop projects which may in turn impact its operational and
financial performance.
Under the Aboriginal Land Rights Act 1983 (NSW), Aboriginal Land
Councils can claim crown land if certain requirements are met. If a
claim is successful, freehold title over the relevant land is transferred
to the claimant council. Further, Aboriginal Land Councils are
afforded certain statutory rights which can include a requirement to
enter into a compensation agreement prior to the grant of a Mining
Lease. This may delay the grant of future mining tenements over
any area of such land. Some of our tenements are located in areas
that are subject to outstanding Aboriginal land claims, and additional
Aboriginal land claims may be made in the future over other areas
in which our tenements are located. Any such claims may result in
our ability to explore or mine for coal in these areas being subject to
the decisions of the relevant Aboriginal Land Councils, which may
adversely affect our ability to develop projects and, consequently,
our operational and financial performance.
Overlapping tenement risks
Some of the Company’s mines and associated tenements adjoin or
are overlapped by petroleum tenements and adjoin other exploration
interests held by third parties. Overlapping tenements could potentially
prevent, delay or increase the cost of the future development of
the Company’s projects because the Company and the relevant
petroleum exploration licence or other exploration licence holders
could potentially seek to undertake their respective activities on the
overlapping area or the same resource seams and in some cases
the overlapping petroleum tenure holder’s consent may be required.
There is no guarantee that agreement will be reached with the
overlapping petroleum tenement holder or that agreement will not
be delayed or will be reached on terms satisfactory to the Company.
There is also a risk that if agreement cannot be reached with
overlapping tenement holders the matter may be referred to the
relevant minister or a court who may make a decision which adversely
impacts upon or prevents the project proposed by the Company.
Enforcement and counterparty insolvency risks
The Company has entered into contracts which are important to the
future of its businesses including (but not limited to) for the provision
of coal handling services, long-term sales contracts, debt facilities,
long-term leases, contract mining and the provision of certain
guarantees, indemnities and sureties.
Any failure by counterparties to perform those contracts may
have a material adverse effect on the Company and there can be
no assurance that it would be successful in enforcing any of its
contractual rights through legal action.
In addition, any insolvency of a counterparty to any of these contracts
may have a material adverse effect on the Company and there can
be no assurance that it would be successful in enforcing any of its
contractual rights through legal action or recovering all monies owed
by that counterparty (including under any claim for damages).
Coal royalties
Royalties are payable to the NSW and QLD State Governments
on coal produced in NSW and QLD. In both States, the royalties
are payable on an ad valorem basis as they are calculated as a
percentage of the value for which the coal is sold. The relevant
State Governments may increase these royalties or their method of
calculation. Any impost of new royalty related State tax or increase in
royalty rates may have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial
position and/or financial performance.
Climate change/carbon regulation risks
The regulatory response to the risk of climate change, including
unilateral and collective action by Australia and other countries,
may affect demand for coal, coal prices and the competitiveness
of the Company’s products in the world energy market.
In November 2014, an agreement was announced between the
United States and China to cut greenhouse gas emissions by more
than 25% below 2005 levels by 2025. This agreement was followed
by the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference, and the
signing of the Paris Agreement within the United Nationals Framework
Convention on Climate Change. The Paris Agreement was signed
by representatives from 195 countries, and aims to hold back the
increase in global temperatures, increase the ability of countries to
adapt to the adverse impacts of climate change and provide channels
to finance projects that lead to greenhouse gas reductions.