NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018
126      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
C7 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (CONTINUED)
(b) Foreign exchange and interest rate risk
Information about the Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk and interest rate risk in relation to trade and other receivables is provided in
Note D9.
(c) Fair value and credit risk
Due to the nature of these receivables, their carrying amount is assumed to approximate their fair value.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the end of the reporting period is the carrying amount of each class of receivables mentioned above.
Refer to Note D9 for more information on the risk management policy of the Group and the credit quality of the Group’s trade receivables.
C8 INVENTORIES
Accounting Policy
Coal stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Costs are assigned on a weighted average basis and include direct
materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of variable and fixed overheads on the basis of normal mining capacity. Net realisable
value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs
necessary to make the sale.
Inventories of auxiliary materials, spare parts, small tools, and fuel expected to be used in production, are stated at weighted average cost
after deducting rebates and discounts less allowance, if necessary, for obsolescence.
31 December
2018
$M
31 December
2017
$M
Coal – at lower of cost or net realisable value
136
87
Tyres and spares – at cost
86
59
Fuel – at cost
4
4
226
150
(a) Inventory expense
Write downs of inventories to net realisable value recognised as a provision at 31 December 2018 amounted to $1 million (2017: $1 million).
The movement in the provision has been included in “Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress” in the consolidated
statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income.
C9 ROYALTY RECEIVABLE
Accounting Policy
The royalty receivable is revalued at each reporting period based on expected future cash flows that are dependent on sales volumes,
price changes and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the royalty receivable are
recognised in profit or loss. The cash receipts will be recorded against the royalty receivable which will be decreased over time. Since the
contract is long-term, unwinding of the discount (to reflect the time value of money) for the asset will be recognised under interest income.
The royalty receivable is measured based on management’s expectations of the future cash flows with the remeasurement recorded in the
Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income at each reporting date.
The amount expected to be received during the next 12 months is disclosed as a current receivable and the discounted expected future
cash flow beyond 12 months is disclosed as a non-current receivable.
C – OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES