CASH FLOW MANAGEMENT
The strength of the Company’s 2018 balance sheet
and cash flow management strategy has enabled
Yancoal to pay down debt throughout 2018 and
end the financial year with A$1,031 million in cash.
This cash has subsequently been used to facilitate
the Company’s final dividend payment and a further
debt repayment of US$500 million1.
We have now reduced the Company’s total debt
liabilities by US$1.4 billion since completion of the
acquisition of Coal & Allied on 1 September 2017.
Such an achievement demonstrates the quality
of our assets, the aptitude of our operational
leadership teams, the commitment of our Board
to our shareholders, and the sustained strength
of the thermal and metallurgical coal markets.
Repayment of debt remains a critical objective
of our long-term plan for strategic growth and we
remain committed to further prepayments as revenue
allows and in the best interests of all shareholders.
OPERATIONAL STRENGTH
Within the past two years, Yancoal has successfully
restructured its business to significantly improve
operational efficiencies and establish new blending
and marketing opportunities.
We have implemented strict cost control measures
at all sites and forged strong bonds with our many
customers and joint venture partners to maximise the
changing scale of our operations, post acquisition.
With market demand for high quality thermal coal
remaining strong throughout 2018, Yancoal produced
a record 50.0 million tonnes of saleable coal for
2018, up 59% on the year prior.
Our three tier-one assets led an increase in total
attributable coal sales of 68% on the year prior, with
Yancoal achieving total sales of 37.1 million tonnes
in 2018, up from 22.1 million tonnes in 2017.
Importantly, we also delivered a consistently positive
improvement in safety, awareness and training across
all operations, decreasing our Total Recordable Injury
Frequency Rate from 10.43 in 2017 to 7.74 in 2018.
We cannot achieve our production and growth targets
without considering and adopting safe operating
practices in everything we do. We maintain our
position that we never compromise on safety.
HK LISTING
In 2018 we strengthened our shareholder base
via Yancoal’s successful listing on the Main Board
of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Ltd.
As an established leader within the global resources
sector, our Hong Kong listing is an important step
forward in the Company’s history. Yancoal is now
the only dual-listed Australian/Hong Kong coal
operator and our listing will provide further
opportunities to drive share price improvement
and improve Yancoal’s liquidity.
Yancoal also raised A$268 million as part of the
Global Offering associated with the Company’s
HK listing, with the net proceeds raised to be
used to repay debt and unsecured loans; finance
potential acquisitions; and for working capital and
general corporate purposes. Proceeds raised were
also used to finance the acquisition of an additional
4% interest in Moolarben in December 2018.
OUTLOOK
In the year ahead, Yancoal Australia remains focused
on delivering high quality thermal and metallurgical
coal to meet increasing global demand; and
developing its pipeline of major projects.
We have high expectations for our future growth,
and remain committed to leading by example
and operating in accordance with the values
of the Yancoal Way, guided by our core beliefs
of compliance, transparency and efficiency.
As we continue to support the development
of a low-emissions future, coal remains a critical
part of global baseload energy supply needs.
It is therefore our responsibility to operate efficiently
and transparently to ensure only the highest grades
of quality coal are being produced and exported
to meet future low-emission, high-energy needs
in the international market.
Demand for both thermal and metallurgical coal
is expected to continue to grow in 2019, and
I believe this year’s financial and operational results
clearly demonstrate we have the resilience, skills
and strength to maximise future opportunities.
Together, with the support of our majority
shareholders, the Board and Executive, and
operational leadership teams, I believe we will
generate further success for Yancoal Australia
and value for investors.
2019 will be a year of new opportunities and I look
forward to the road ahead as an integral participant
in our key markets.
1 As announced 25 February 2019.
ANNUAL REPORT 2018         9