NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018
146      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
D9 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(d) Fair value measurements (continued)
(iv)	 Fair values of other financial instruments
The carrying amount is approximate to the fair value for the following:
(i)	 Trade and other receivables
(ii)	 Other financial assets
(iii)	 Trade and other payables
(iv)	 Interest-bearing liabilities
E	 GROUP STRUCTURE
This section explains significant aspects of the Group’s structure including interests in other entities, related party transactions, parent entity
information, controlled entities and the deed of cross guarantee.
E1 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND DISPOSALS
Accounting Policies
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for all business combinations, including business combinations involving entities
or businesses under common control, regardless of whether equity instruments or other assets are acquired. The consideration transferred
for the acquisition of a subsidiary comprises the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued
by the Group. The consideration transferred also includes the fair value of any contingent consideration arrangement and the fair value of
any pre-existing equity interest in the subsidiary. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred including stamp duty. Identifiable assets
acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are, with limited exceptions, measured initially at their
fair values at the acquisition date.
The excess of the consideration transferred and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value
of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable assets acquired is recorded as
goodwill. If those amounts are less than the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the subsidiary acquired and the measurement of all
amounts has been reviewed, the difference is recognised directly in profit or loss as a gain on acquisition of subsidiaries.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
Acquisition accounting
Accounting for acquisition of businesses requires judgement and estimates in determining the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities.
Techniques used to determine the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities include an income and cost approach for mining tenements
and depreciated replacement cost for the valuation of property, plant and equipment.
The relevant accounting standard allows the fair value of assets acquired to be refined for a window of one year after the acquisition date,
and judgement is required to ensure the adjustments made reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed
as of the acquisition date. The adjustments made on fair value of assets are retrospective in nature and have an impact on goodwill or gain
recognised on acquisition.
(a) Acquisition of 4% of Moolarben
(i) Summary of acquisition
On 30 November 2018, Moolarben Coal Mine Pty Ltd, a 100% owned subsidiary of Yancoal Australia Ltd, acquired a 4% interest in Moolarben
Coal Joint Venture (“Moolarben JV”) from Kores Australia Moolarben Coal Pty Ltd (“Kores”). The Moolarben JV is accounted for as a joint
operation. With the 4% acquisition the Group now holds an 85% interest in the Moolarben JV. The cash consideration paid and payable
was $84 million, split over four instalments of $21 million each, and reduced by a $21 million effective date adjustment whereby the cash
consideration was reduced by 4% of the Moolarben JV’s net cash inflow from the date of the sales agreement (15 April 2018) to completion.
(ii) Assets and liabilities acquired
Details of the purchase consideration and the net assets and liabilities acquired of the additional interest in the Moolarben JV are as follows:
$M
Purchase consideration:
Purchase price
84
Effective date adjustment
(21)
Total consideration
63
Gain on acquisition of interest in joint operation
–
Fair value of net identifiable assets acquired
63
E – GROUP STRUCTURE