DIRECTORS’ REPORT      ANNUAL REPORT 2018      69
2.2	Use of external remuneration advisors
From time to time, the Remuneration Committee seeks and considers advice from external advisors who are engaged by and report directly to
the Remuneration Committee. Such advice will typically cover remuneration levels, independent benchmarking data and information regarding
best practice, trends and regulatory developments.
In 2018, the Committee engaged the consulting firm Aon Hewitt Limited (“Aon Hewitt”) to provide independent market benchmarking with
respect to the remuneration of Yancoal executives and non-executive directors. This included providing recommendations, as defined under
the Corporations Act 2001, on executive remuneration and executive incentive plan design for the financial year 2018 to the Committee.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Aon Hewitt are satisfied that the recommendations, relating to the executive
remuneration structure and executive incentive plan design, have not been subject to any undue influence by the Executives to whom the
recommendations apply.
TABLE 2: Remuneration Advisor Fees in 2018
Aon Hewitt
2018
$
Remuneration recommendations
83,500
Other advice received
105,000
Total services remuneration
188,500
3.	 Executive remuneration
3.1	Objective
Remuneration frameworks for Executives are structured to be market competitive and to reflect the reward strategy of the Company. Through
these frameworks the Company seeks to align remuneration for Executives with:
Shareholders’ interests by:
––
making economic performance a core component of the overall remuneration plan design;
––
focusing on the key value drivers of the business including employee safety, operational performance and cost control; and
––
attracting and retaining high calibre executives.
Executive’s interests by:
––
rewarding capability and experience;
––
reflecting competitive reward for contribution to growth in Company performance;
––
providing a clear structure for earning rewards; and
––
providing recognition for contribution.
Details of remuneration for all Executives are set out in Table 10.
3.2	Structure
All remuneration frameworks for Executives are structured as a combination of fixed and variable remuneration, as follows:
TABLE 3: Executive remuneration structure
Current
Fixed remuneration
––
Fixed Annual Remuneration (“FAR”), including cash salary, superannuation, and may include car allowance; and
––
Other benefits (see Section 3.4).
Variable remuneration
––
Short-term Incentive (“STI”) (see Section 3.5.1); and
(“at risk”)
––
Long-term Incentive (“LTI”) (see Section 3.5.2).
3.3	Remuneration mix at target remuneration
The chart below illustrates the relative proportion of remuneration entitlement for Executive KMP that is fixed and that which is linked to individual
or Company performance or both (STIP and LTIP) to the extent target performance for at-risk components is met.
TABLE 4: Components of Target Remuneration for Executive KMP for 2018
CEO/CEC
33%
17%
17%
33%
Former CEC
33%
33%
33%
CFO/COO
14%
21%
21%
43%
Fixed
At risk STI (cash)
At risk STI (deferred)
At risk LTI
Calculations for fixed remuneration entitlement include benefits but exclude the value of expatriate benefits; see Table 10. The short-term variable
remuneration entitlement is determined pursuant to the STIP (outlined in Section 3.5.1). The LTIP is outlined in Section 3.5.2.