NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      ANNUAL REPORT 2018      129
Provision
Description
Sales contract
In acquiring part of a business or operation, an assessment is made of the fair value of the assets and liabilities under
AASB 3 Business Combinations. The sales contract provision is the assessment of a coal supply and transportation
agreement to supply coal to BLCP Power Limited in Thailand at below market prices. A provision was recognised for the
discounted estimated variance between contract and market prices. The provision has a finite life and will be released to
profit or loss over the contract term.
Key estimate and judgement:
The provision is recognised and estimated based on management’s assessment of future market prices.
Other provisions
The provision includes marketing services fee payable to Noble Group Limited deemed above market norms, contingent
royalties payable to Rio Tinto Plc assessed as part of the Coal & Allied Industries Ltd (“Coal & Allied”) acquisition in 2017
which will be amortised over the contract term, and make good provisions to cover the cost to “make good” any hired
equipment, in case any major overhaul costs are incurred at the end of the lease period.
Key estimate and judgement:
The provision is recognised and estimated based on management’s assessment of future market prices of coal.
C12 ASSETS CLASSIFIED AS HELD FOR SALE
Accounting Policies
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale
or loss of control transaction rather than through continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the asset (or disposal group)
is available for immediate sale or disposal in its present condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for sales or disposals
of such assets (or disposal groups) and the transaction is highly probable. Management must be committed to the transaction, which
should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed transaction within one year from the date of classification.
When the Group is committed to a sale plan or other transaction involving loss of control of a subsidiary, all of the assets and liabilities
of that subsidiary are classified as held for sale when the criteria described above are met, regardless of whether the Group will retain a
non‑controlling interest in its former subsidiary after the sale.
Non-current assets (and disposal groups) classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of their previous carrying amount and fair
value less costs to sell.
31 December
2018
$M
31 December
2017
$M
Current assets
Investment in associate (i)
–
25
Interest in joint ventures (ii)
–
531
Land held for sale (iii)
57
57
Total current assets
57
613
Current liabilities
Interest in joint ventures (ii)
–
67
Total current liabilities
–
67
(i)	 Investment in associate
The investment in associate was included in the asset sale agreement with Glencore as disclosed further in Note E1. An indirect interest in Port
Waratah Coal Services Pty Ltd of 6.5%, held via shares in Newcastle Coal Shippers Pty Ltd, was sold for US$20 million and completed in 2018.
(ii)	 Interest in joint ventures
On 27 July 2017 the Company announced that it had entered into a binding agreement to establish a 51:49 unincorporated joint venture with
Glencore in relation to HVO, following completion of the Group’s acquisition of Coal & Allied from Rio Tinto. Glencore paid cash consideration
of US$429 million to the Group for a 16.6% interest in HVO, and this amount was reduced by the net cash flows generated by the 16.6% HVO
interest from 1 September 2017 to the date of completion. The consideration also include a 27.9% share of US$240 million of non-contingent
royalties and 49% of HVO contingent royalties payable by the Group and a net debt and working capital adjustment in respect of the Coal &
Allied acquisition. The US$429 million includes US$20 million associated with the sale of shares in Newcastle Coal Shippers Pty Ltd held by
Coal & Allied to Glencore noted above. The sale was completed on 4 May 2018.
(iii)	Land held for sale
The land held for sale refers to parcels of non-mining land located in the Lower Hunter Valley that are held for future sale. These were acquired
as part of the acquisition of Coal & Allied at fair value.