Yancoal asks its sites and corporate functions
to operate to the highest governance standards
– applying transparent, compliant and efficient
processes to meet the needs of all stakeholders.
The Yancoal Core Values underpin the
“Core Beliefs”. The values start with engaged
people; working safely; acting with integrity;
striving for excellence; and seeking improvement
through innovation.
STRATEGIC ADVANTAGES
1.	 People – Attracting, retaining and developing
people with the right skills is essential.
Our assets only deliver if our teams are
working together. Yancoal has assembled
a highly capable team.
2.	 Projects – Yancoal assembled a strong asset
portfolio through opportune acquisitions of
tier-one assets with robust operating margins
that underpin the business.
3.	 Relationships – As the largest pure-play coal
company in Australia, Yancoal supplies
numerous customers. There is a continued
emphasis on strong relationships with Japan,
South Korea, China and Taiwan.
4.	 Products – Yancoal produces high quality
coal for the international market. Maximising
the achieved price through product blending
to meet the evolving customer demand
is a continual focus.
5.	 Optimisation – The recently expanded
asset portfolio continues to deliver cost
efficiencies. Optimising operations,
maintenance, procurement, product blending
and taxes are all contributing to competitive
financial performance.
CORE BELIEFS
Business Transparency, Compliance and Efficiency
CORE VALUES
People, Safety, Integrity, Excellence, Innovation
The expanded production base and strengthened financial
position are milestones on an ongoing journey. Through
its core values and strategic advantages, Yancoal strives
for improved shareholder returns. The Board and
management team continually seek improved operational
performance, the certainty of product quality and healthy
relationships inside and outside the business.
OUR STRATEGY
Path way
People
Safe way
Safety
Right way
Integrity
High way
Excellence
Better way
Innovation
Business
Transparency
Compliance
Efficiency
10         YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD