ACHIEVEMENTS
2018 has been a year of extraordinary growth and
success. We have achieved a record financial result,
paid half year and full year dividends, significantly
reduced our debt and successfully listed Yancoal
Australia Ltd on the Main Board of the Stock
Exchange of Hong Kong.
Our transformational financial turnaround
demonstrates the robustness of our operational,
investment and cash flow management strategies.
EXCEPTIONAL RESULT
Our renewed financial strength has been achieved
via our consistently disciplined approach to cost
management and the implementation of production
efficiencies.
Benefitting from a full year’s attributable production
and coal sales from our tier-one assets, Yancoal
achieved a record profit after tax of A$852 million
from revenue of A$4,850 million.
Our total operating EBITDA was A$2,180 million,
more than double that of the prior year with a full
year’s contribution from Mount Thorley Warkworth
and the Hunter Valley Operations complementing
the Moolarben complex. The margin achieved was
also stronger than the prior year.
In accordance with our assurance to return
shareholder value following the strategic acquisition
of Coal & Allied in September 2017, we have
signalled a new era of financial stability for Yancoal
via the payment of a maiden interim dividend
totalling A$130 million on 21 September 2018,
and a final dividend totalling A$211 million and
special dividend of A$166 million on 30 April 2019.
Our total FY2018 dividend payments of A$507
million represent a payout ratio of ~60%, consisting
of 40% of net profit after tax (A$341 million) and a
19.5% special dividend (A$166 million). Yancoal has
subsequently announced a targeted dividend payout
of 50% of net profit after tax in the year ahead.
In 2018 we have fortified our position
in the competitive international coal market
and returned the Yancoal Group to a position
of strength and financial health.
BAOCAI ZHANG
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD
CHAIRMAN’S
LETTER
8         YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD