INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT      ANNUAL REPORT 2018      173
Key Audit Matter
How the matter was addressed during the audit
Watagan Mining Company Pty Ltd (Watagan) Control assessment
(Note E2(b)(i))
Even though the Group holds 100% of the nominal share capital
of Watagan the Directors have assessed that the Group does not
control Watagan as it is not able to direct the relevant activities of
Watagan.
The assessment under the accounting standards is continuous
and it requires a high degree of judgement. If Watagan is
controlled by the Group there would need to be a significant
change to the financial statements to reflect the consolidation of
the assets and liabilities of Watagan.
Our audit procedures included, among others:
Considering the requirements of the accounting
standard AASB 10 Consolidated Financial Statements
to assess whether Yancoal controlled Watagan during
the year ended 31 December 2018. In performing
these procedures we have reviewed and challenged
management’s control assessment which includes but
is not limited to an analysis of the relationship between
the Group, Watagan and its bondholders; as well as
Watagan’s board composition and dynamics.
Impairment of interest-bearing loan to Watagan
(Note D1)
As at 31 December 2018 Yancoal was owed $835 million by
Watagan. This loan receivable must be assessed for impairment
as required by the accounting standard AASB 9 Financial
Instruments. As the underlying cash flows of Watagan do not
support the recovery of this receivable in full, the Group has
assessed whether sufficient credit enhancement is in place to
ensure the receivable is recoverable.
The loan receivable hasn’t been impaired as Yankuang Group
Co., Ltd (Yankuang), the ultimate parent of the Company, has
guaranteed the loan receivable.
Due to the size of the loan receivable outstanding and the nature
of the guarantee provided the loan receivable is considered to be
a key audit matter.
Our audit procedures included, among others:
•
Considering the underlying loan asset impairment
test against the criteria of AASB 9 Financial
Instruments
•
Assessing the validity of the guarantee that has
been provided by Yankuang
•
Assessing the ability of Yankuang to satisfy the
guarantee in the future.
180