CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT    ANNUAL REPORT 2018      83
It is expected that externally facilitated reviews will occur
approximately every three years. The independent external facilitator
will seek input from each of the Directors and certain members of
senior management in relation to the performance of the Board
against a set of agreed criteria.
Once an externally facilitated review occurs, the progress against any
recommendations from the most recent externally facilitated review,
together with any new issues, will be considered internally. Feedback
from each Director against a set of agreed criteria will be collected
by the Chairman or the external facilitator. The CEC and CEO will
also provide feedback from senior Executives in connection with any
issues that may be relevant in the context of the Board performance
review. Feedback will be collected by the Chairman, or an external
facilitator, and discussed by the Board, with consideration being given
as to whether any steps should be taken to improve performance of
the Board or its committees.
Since the adoption of the Protocol in 2012, the Company carried out
four annual Board performance reviews internally, and has conducted
one externally facilitated Board performance review. An externally
facilitated review of the Board was carried out in 2016 (in respect of
2015) and a review of the Board was conducted internally in 2018
(in respect of 2017), in accordance with process disclosed above.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee considers
assessments by independent bodies regarding boards of Australian
companies and their performance. The Chair of the Nomination and
Remuneration Committee reports any material issues or findings from
these evaluations to the Board.
Board committees
Each of the four standing committees of the Board conducts
an annual committee performance self-assessment to review
performance using guidelines approved by the Nomination and
Remuneration Committee. The guidelines include reviewing the
committee’s performance having regard to its role and responsibilities
as set out in its Charter; consideration as to whether the committee’s
Charter is fit for purpose; and identification of future topics for training/
education of the committee or its individual members.
The outcomes of the performance self-assessments are reported
to the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (or to the Board,
if there are any material issues relating to the Nomination and
Remuneration Committee) for discussion and noting.
Each committee provides feedback to the Board on its own
performance, which is collected by the Chairman or an external
facilitator, and the feedback is discussed by the Board, with
consideration of whether any steps for improvement are required.
The most recent review of the Board’s committees was conducted
in 2018 (in respect of 2017) in accordance with the process
disclosed above.
Individual Directors
Directors are evaluated on, amongst other things, their alignment with
the values of the Company, their commitment to their duties and their
level of financial, technical and specialist knowledge. Directors are also
expected to be fully aware of their duties of care and skill, as well as
fiduciary duties, as a Director.
An annual performance review of Non-Executive Directors is
conducted by the Chairman for each Non-Executive Director,
specifically addressing the performance criteria within the Protocol.
An annual review of the performance of the Chairman is facilitated by
the Co-Vice Chairmen who seek input from each Director individually
on the performance of the Chairman against the competencies for the
Chairman’s role approved by the Board. The Co-Vice Chairmen collate
the input in order to provide an overview report to the Nomination and
Remuneration Committee and to the Board, as well as feedback to
the Chairman.
An externally facilitated review of individual Directors was conducted
in 2016 (in respect of 2015) and an internal review was conducted in
2018 (in respect of 2017) in accordance with the process disclosed
above. The requirements of the principles set out in the HK Code in
respect of performance of the Directors will be taken into account in
undertaking future Director reviews.
Performance of senior Executives
The CEC and the CEO review the performance of senior Executives
annually against appropriate measures as part of the Company’s
performance management system for all managers and staff.
On an annual basis, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee
and subsequently the Board formally review the performance of the
CEO and the CEC. The CEO’s performance is assessed against
qualitative and quantitative criteria, including profit performance,
other financial measures, safety performance and strategic actions. The
Nomination and Remuneration Committee also undertakes an annual
formal review of the performance of other members of the Executive
Committee, based on similar criteria. The Board reviews and approves
the annual review of all the members of the Executive Committee
undertaken by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
The performance evaluation for the CEC, CEO and senior Executives
took place in 2019 (in respect of 2018) in accordance with the
process disclosed above.
Principle 2: Structure the Board to add value
Structure of the Board
Currently, the Board comprises:
––
Executive Director: Fucun Wang (appointed as a Non-Executive
Director on 8 June 2018 and was subsequently redesignated to
an Executive Director effective 26 June 2018);
––
Non-Executive Directors: Baocai Zhang (redesignated from an
Executive Director to a Non-Executive Director on 8 June 2018),
Cunliang Lai, Qingchun Zhao, Xiangqian Wu, Fuqi Wang and
Xing Feng; and
––
Independent Non-Executive Directors: Geoffrey William Raby,
Gregory James Fletcher, David James Moult (appointed 30
January 2018) and Helen Jane Gillies (appointed 30 January 2018).
Xiyong Li resigned from the role of Chairman of the Board and
Non-Executive Director on 8 June 2018.
The following Independent Non-Executive Directors resigned from
the Board: Vincent O’Rourke AM (resigned 30 January 2018) and
Huaqiao Zhang (resigned 30 January 2018).
The skills, experience and expertise of each Director and the period
that each Director has held office is disclosed in the Information on
Directors in the Directors’ Report, on page 58.
The Constitution provides that there will be a minimum of four and
a maximum of 11 Directors of the Company, unless the Company
resolves otherwise at a general meeting.
The number of meetings held by the Board during 2018 and each
Director’s attendance at these meetings is set out in the Directors’
Report on page 64.
Chairman of the Board
The current Chairman, Baocai Zhang, was nominated by the
Company’s major shareholder, Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. Ltd
(“Yanzhou”). The Chairman leads the Board and is responsible for
the efficient organisation and conduct of the Board’s functioning.