CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT    ANNUAL REPORT 2018      97
Litigation
Like all companies in the resources sector, the Company is exposed
to the risks of litigation (either as the complainant or as the defendant),
which may have a material adverse effect on the financial position of
the relevant entity. The Company could become exposed to claims or
litigation by persons alleging they are owed fees or other contractual
entitlements, employees, regulators, competitors or other third
parties. Such claims or proceedings could divert our management’s
time and attention and consume financial resources in their defence
or prosecution.
Insurance
The Company has insurance coverage for certain operating risks.
However, it may become subject to liability (including in relation to
pollution, occupational illnesses or other hazards), or suffer loss
resulting from business interruption, for which it is not insured
(or has not sufficiently insured) or cannot insure, including liabilities
in respect of past activities.
Should a major uninsured loss be suffered, future financial
performance could be materially adversely affected. In addition,
insurance may not continue to be available at economically
acceptable premiums. As a result, the insurance coverage may
not cover the full scope and extent of claims against the Company
or losses it may incur, including, but not limited to, claims for
environmental or industrial accidents, occupational illnesses, pollution
and product liability, war, terrorism and business interruption.
To the extent a successful claim against the Company proceeds,
it may have a material adverse effect on its financial position.
Exploration and development risks
The Company’s existing coal reserves will decline as mining continues.
Therefore, the Company’s growth and long-term success will depend
on its ability to acquire additional coal resources within its exploration
areas and to convert such coal resources into economically
recoverable coal reserves.
There are several risks relating to coal mining exploration and
development which are common to the industry and which, if realised,
have the capacity to affect the operations, production, cash flow and
financial performance of the Company.
Development and exploration activities may be affected by factors
beyond the control of the Company, including geological conditions,
seismic activity, mineralisation, consistency and predictability of coal
grades, changes to law, changes to the regulatory framework applying
to mining, overlapping resources tenure, and the rights of indigenous
people on whose land exploration activities are undertaken.
Any discovery of a coal deposit does not guarantee that the mining of
that deposit would be commercially viable, with the size of the deposit,
development and operating costs, land ownership, coal prices and
recovery rates all being key factors in determining commercial viability.
Issues that arise during development, construction and mine start-
up may result in increased costs, delayed commencement of coal
production, delayed receipt of coal revenue or coal production not
commencing at all. These problems may include delays in obtaining
approvals (including land use approvals) or in the construction of mine
infrastructure. There are many milestones which need to be met in a
timely fashion for production to commence on any projects currently
in the pre-development or development stages.
The Company may also be exposed to risks including risks of default
associated with managing contractual relationships with participants
in any of the development or exploration joint ventures or other
contractual relationships to which it is, or may become, a party.
Transport and infrastructure
Coal produced from the Company’s mining operations is transported
to customers by a combination of road, rail and sea. Fluctuations in
transportation costs and disruptions to our railway and port linkages
could disrupt the Company’s coal deliveries and adversely affect its
business, financial condition and results of operations.
A number of factors could disrupt or restrict access to essential coal
transportation and handling services, including (but not limited to):
––
weather related problems;
––
key equipment and infrastructure failures;
––
rail or port capacity constraints;
––
congestions and inter-system losses;
––
industrial action;
––
failure to obtain consents from third parties for access to rail
or land;
––
failure or delay in the construction of new rail or port capacity;
––
failure to meet contractual requirements;
––
access is removed or not granted by regulatory authority;
––
terrorist attacks or other similar events;
––
breach of regulatory framework;
––
mismatch of below rail capacity, above rail capacity and port
capacity; and
––
possible sale of infrastructure,
all or any of which could impair the Company’s ability to supply coal
to customers and/or increase costs, and consequently may have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position.
Significant increases in transport costs (such as emissions control
requirements and fluctuations in the price of diesel fuel and
demurrage) could make the Company’s coal less competitive when
compared to other fuels or coal produced from other regions.
Environmental risks
Due to the nature of coal mining processes, and the associated
by-products, residues and tailings generated from these processes,
all operations of the Company are subject to stringent environmental
laws and regulations.
There is a risk that past, present or future operations have not met
or will not meet environmental or related regulatory requirements
and/or that the approvals or modifications the Company is currently
seeking, or may need to seek in the future, will not be granted. If
the Company is unsuccessful in these efforts or otherwise breaches
these environmental requirements, it may incur fines or penalties, be
required to curtail or cease operations and/or be subject to increased
compliance costs or costs for rehabilitation or rectification works,
which have not been previously planned at one or more of its sites.
Extensive environmental regulations in Australia, and in other countries
that could affect the Company’s business, may impose costs on its
mining operations, and future regulations could increase those costs,
limit its ability to produce and sell coal, or reduce demand for the
Company’s our coal products. In particular, the regulatory response to
the risk of climate change, including unilateral and collective action by
Australia and other countries, may affect demand for coal, coal prices
and the competitiveness of the Company’s products in the world
energy market in the medium to long term.