CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT    ANNUAL REPORT 2018      99
Principle 8: Remunerate fairly and responsibly
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
The Board has established a Nomination and Remuneration
Committee. In accordance with its charter, which was reviewed and
amended in October 2018 to provide for relevant provisions of the
HK Listing Rules, this committee currently has five members, Helen
Gillies (appointed 8 June 2018) (Chair of the committee, member since
6 February 2018), Xiangqian Wu and Gregory Fletcher (appointed
8 June 2018), Baocai Zhang (appointed 8 June 2018) and David Moult
(appointed 8 June 2018). Xiyong Li resigned as the Chair on 8 June
2018 and Cunliang Lai resigned as a member of the committee on
8 June 2018. Three of the members of the committee, including the
Chair of the committee, are independent Directors of the Company,
in line with the ASX Recommendations. The Nomination and
Remuneration Committee Charter can be found within the Corporate
Governance section of the Company’s website.
The committee makes recommendations to the Board to achieve
Company remuneration structures that are equitable and aligned with
the long-term interests of the Company and its shareholders, to attract
and retain skilled employees, to structure short- and long-term
incentives that are challenging and linked to creation of sustainable
returns and to ensure any termination benefits are justifiable
and appropriate.
In 2018, the committee engaged consulting firm Aon Hewitt (Aon)
to provide independent market benchmarking with respect to the
remuneration of Yancoal Executives and Non-Executive Directors.
Aon presented its recommendations to the committee in Q1 and Q2
2018, which were endorsed by the committee for Board approval.
The Board adopted the recommendations in May 2018.
The committee has the necessary power and resources to meet
its responsibilities under its charter, including rights of access to
management, auditors and external advisors. It is intended that
the committee will meet at least once per year, or as frequently
as required.
Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors
The Constitution provides that the Non-Executive Directors are entitled
to such remuneration as approved by the Company’s shareholders
in accordance with the Constitution, which must not exceed the
aggregate annual amount as determined by the Company in general
meeting or by its major shareholder, Yanzhou.
Remuneration for Non-Executive Directors is capped at an aggregate
amount for each financial year of $3.5 million. Non-Executive
Directors may also be paid such additional or special remuneration
as the Directors decide is appropriate where a Non-Executive
Director performs extra services or makes special exertions for
the benefit of the Company. Such additional remuneration will not
form part of the calculation of the aggregate cap on Non-Executive
Directors’ remuneration for a financial year and does not require
shareholder approval. No Director is involved in determining his
or her own remuneration.
Further details of the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors,
Executive Directors and senior Executives can be found in the
Remuneration Report on pages 64 to 77.
Dealings in Company securities
By law, and under the Company’s Insider Trading Policy, dealing in
Company securities is subject to the overriding prohibition on trading
while in possession of inside information.
In addition, the Company’s Share Trading Policy prohibits dealing
in Company securities or Yanzhou securities by Directors, senior
Executives and other relevant employees, as well as their closely
related parties, during specified blackout periods each year. General
employees are permitted to deal in Company securities outside these
blackout periods; however additional approval requirements apply to
Directors, the CEO and the CFO. The Share Trading Policy precludes
relevant employees from entering into any hedge or derivative
transactions relating to unvested options or share rights granted to
them under incentive plans and securities that are subject to holding
locks or restrictions on dealing under such plans. There are also
restrictions that apply to relevant employees from entering into margin
lending arrangements and short-term trading of the Company’s
securities. Breaches of the policy are treated seriously and may lead to
disciplinary action, including dismissal.
The Board approved revisions to its share trading policy in October
2018 with the requirements set out in the Model Code for Securities
Transactions by Directors of Listed Issuers (the Model Code) as set
out in Appendix 10 of the HK Listing Rules to regulate the Directors’
securities transactions, which is also applicable to the Company’s
employees who are likely to be in possession of unpublished
inside information.
Specific enquiry has been made of all the Directors and they have
each confirmed that they have complied with the Company’s Share
Trading Policy and Insider Trading Policy (which is more stringent than
the Model Code) since the HK Listing (on 6 December 2018) to 31
December 2018.
Copies of the Company’s Share Trading Policy and Insider Trading
Policy are available on the Corporate Governance section of the
Company’s website.
This Corporate Governance Statement has been approved by the
Board and is current as at 25 February 2019.