CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
90      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
(b)	 determining the members entitled to receive notice of,
and to vote at, any general meeting of the Company; and
(c)	 any other corporate action requiring a record date to be set.”
Principle 7: Recognise and manage risk
Risk identification and management
The Board, through the Audit and Risk Management Committee,
is responsible for satisfying itself that a sound system of risk oversight
and management exists and that internal controls are effective
to enable it to assess the type and extent of relevant risks in its
decision making.
In particular, the Board ensures that:
––
the material strategic, operational, financial reporting
and compliance risks are identified and evaluated; and
––
risk management, control and reporting systems are in place
to identify, assess, manage, monitor and report on these risks.
The role and membership of the Audit and Risk Management
Committee are described under Principles 2 and 4.
The Company’s Audit and Risk Management Committee Charter
can be found within the Corporate Governance section of the
Company’s website.
The Board has requested the Company’s senior Executives
and management to report to the Audit and Risk Management
Committee and, where appropriate the Board, regarding the effective
management of its material business risks.
In 2018, the Audit and Risk Management Committee had in place a
framework to identify, assess and manage risks that are material to
the business. This framework includes:
––
implementation of a corporate risk management standard
approved by the Audit and Risk Management Committee
and Board;
––
identification of material business risks by reference to a corporate
risk register, approved by the Audit and Risk Management
Committee and Board;
––
formal risk identification activities being undertaken at both
a functional level and at each of the Company’s mine sites;
––
designated individuals across the business that have accountability
for the implementation of risk management within their areas
of responsibility;
––
the GM of Risk and Assurance as a central resource available
to assist with all risk management responsibilities, and to assist
with any training/awareness or other related requirements; and
––
adherence to internal procedures and plans for crisis management.
The Audit and Risk Management Committee receives periodic reports
on the performance of the Company’s risk management framework,
as well as on the Company’s key risk exposures to satisfy itself that
it continues to be sound. A review of the risk management framework
was conducted in 2018 that addressed areas for continuous
improvement in line with the Australian/New Zealand standard for risk
management. The framework was considered effective.
Formal risk identification activities are undertaken on a periodic basis;
with Risk Identification and Analysis undertaken at a functional level,
as well as at each of the Company’s mine sites. In addition, where
appropriate, project-specific risk assessments are conducted.
The GM of Risk and Assurance is responsible for establishing
and managing the Company-wide risk management framework,
risk management system and practices, reviewing the impact of
the risk management framework on its control environment and
insurance arrangements and reviewing the risk of major investment
projects. Together with the CEC, the Board and the Audit and
Risk Management Committee, the GM of Risk and Assurance is
responsible for developing a risk matrix and framework and for
implementing related risk-based assurance processes for the
Company and its subsidiaries. The GM of Risk and Assurance
annually confirms the continued effectiveness of the risk framework
to the Audit and Risk Management Committee.
The responsibility for managing risks, risk controls or risk management
action plans is embedded within the business and undertaken as
part of everyday activities. The Board recognises and acknowledges
that, while risk management controls and systems can be effective
in managing risks, they cannot eliminate all risks relevant to the
Company achieving its objectives and cannot provide absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Risks associated with the Company
The future operating performance of the Group may be affected by
risks relating to the Company’s business. Some of these risks are
specific to the Company while others relate to economic conditions
and the general industry and markets in which the Company operates.
The Company’s risk management policies and procedures have
been designed and implemented to identify, assess and manage
any material exposure to risks relating to the Company’s business,
including economic, environmental and social sustainability risks.
The Company undertakes regular monitoring and assessment of
these risks and implements risk treatment strategies to manage
its exposure to such risks. However, there can be no assurance
that such risk mitigation strategies will protect the Company from
these risks. Other risks are beyond the Company’s control and
cannot be mitigated. The occurrence of any such risks could
adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and performance.
The risks listed below are not purported to be exhaustive and there
is no assurance that the importance of different risks will not change
or other risks will not emerge.