MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS      ANNUAL REPORT 2018      49
The Group’s objective when managing its capital structure is to
provide sustainable dividends to equity holders, pay down interest-
bearing liabilities to a supportable level whilst providing capital
towards sustaining capital expenditure, and organic and inorganic
expansion opportunities.
The gearing ratio has improved significantly during the year decreasing
from 0.47 as at 31 December 2017 to 0.35 as at 31 December 2018.
The Group’s interest-bearing liabilities include secured bank loans
of A$2,572 million (2017: A$3,141 million) and unsecured loans
from related parties of A$1,510 million (2017: A$1,527 million) both
denominated in US dollars; and secured lease liabilities of A$42 million
(2017: A$55 million) denominated in Australian dollars.
Secured bank loans carry a floating interest rate calculated with
reference to the three-month LIBOR rate for which the average
all-in rate for the year ended 31 December 2018 was 7.10% (2017:
7.93%). Unsecured loans from related parties carry a fixed interest
rate for which the rate for the year ended 31 December 2018 was
7.00% (2017: 7.00%).
The Group’s cash and cash equivalents include A$282 million
(2017: A$68 million), US$395 million (2017: US$108 million) and
HK$1,046 million (2017: HK$ nil).
While the Company operates entirely in Australia and its costs are
primarily denominated in its functional currency, the A$, foreign
currency exposure arises particularly in relation to coal supply
contracts, which generally are priced and payable in US$, procurement
of diesel and imported plant and equipment, which can be priced
in US$ or other foreign currencies, and debt denominated in US$.
The impact of exchange rate movements will vary depending
on factors such as the nature, magnitude and duration of the
movements, the extent to which currency risk is hedged under
forward exchange contracts or other hedging instruments and the
terms of these contracts.
The hedging policy of the Company aims to protect against the volatility
of cash expenditures or reduced collection in the above mentioned
transactions as well as to reduce the volatility of profit or loss for
retranslation of US dollar denominated loans at each period end.
Operating foreign exchange risk that arises from firm commitments
or highly probable transactions is managed through the use of bank
issued forward foreign currency contracts and collar option contracts.
The Company hedges a portion of contracted US$ sales and asset
purchases settled in foreign currencies in each currency to mitigate
the adverse impact on cash flow due to the future rise or fall in the A$
against the relevant currencies.
More details on interest-bearing liabilities, cash and cash equivalents
and equity including types of instrument used, security provided,
maturity profile of interest-bearing liabilities, interest rates and hedging
strategies are included in Notes D2, D4 and D9 to the financial
statements in this report.
Available debt facilities
As at 31 December 2018 the Group has no available undrawn
debt facilities.
As at 31 December 2018 the Group has $196 million of undrawn
bank guarantee facilities that are provided for operational purposes
in favour of port, rail, government departments and other operational
functions in the normal course of business.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE AND COMMITMENTS
During the year ended 31 December 2018 capital expenditure of the
Group amounted to $212 million comprising $210 million of property,
plant and equipment and $2 million of exploration.
As at 31 December 2018 commitments of the Group comprised
capital commitments of $49 million, non-cancellable operating leases
of $88 million and finance leases of $42 million.
More detail on commitments is included in Note F1 to the financial
statements in this report.
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS
No significant inorganic investments are currently planned in the near
future as the Group focuses on organic growth opportunities and
business as usual expenditure.
The Group continues to pursue its long-term strategy for organic
growth, with a commitment to progressing its brownfield expansion
and extension projects.
In the year ahead, the Group will continue to focus on exploration
and expansion works across the tier-one assets of MTW and
Moolarben respectively funded from operating cash flows.
Key projects include the conceptual underground mine at MTW with
an estimated 6 million ROM tonnes per annum, which completed
exploration drilling for the prefeasibility on the target seams at the
end of 2018.
The Group received approvals to commence mining activities
associated with the Lot 1 and Lot 2 areas of MTW during the
reporting period, enabling commencement of the extension of
the existing West Pit on the Warkworth side in 2019.
Proposed modifications for the Moolarben open cut pits are
awaiting approval, as the Group continues to maximise improved
extraction rates in both the open cut and underground mines.
The above projects are expected to be funded from operating
cash flows.
MATERIAL ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS
During the year, the Group made the following material acquisitions
and disposals.
Warkworth Acquisition
On 7 March 2018, the Group completed the acquisition of a further
28.9% interest in the Warkworth unincorporated joint venture
(Warkworth) from Mitsubishi Development Pty Ltd (MDP) for a net
cash consideration of $334 million (Warkworth Acquisition). This
increased the Group’s ownership of Warkworth from 55.6% to 84.5%.
The Warkworth Acquisition was executed pursuant to a call option
that was held in connection with the C&A Acquisition. As MTW is an
integrated operation consisting of the Mount Thorley mine (owned by
the unincorporated Mount Thorley joint venture, of which the Group
owns 80.0%) and the Warkworth mine (owned by the unincorporated
Warkworth joint venture), following the Warkworth Acquisition, the
Group’s share of coal production from the MTW mining operations has
increased from 64.1% to 82.9%. The Group will continue to account
for the financial results of the MTW mine under the proportional
consolidation method of accounting.