CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
94      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
Mine closure
Closure of any of the mines or other operations of the Company
before the end of their mine life (e.g. due to environmental,
geological, geotechnical, commercial and/or health and safety
issues), could trigger significant employee redundancy costs, closure
and rehabilitation expense and other costs or loss of revenues.
Many of these costs will also be incurred where mines are closed at
the end of their planned mine life or placed on care and maintenance.
A move to care and maintenance has the potential to trigger
significant employee redundancy costs and a subsequent loss of
revenues, as a minimal employee presence is required for ongoing
management and rehabilitation of the mines.
If one or more of the relevant sites are closed earlier than anticipated,
the Company will be required to fund the closure costs on an
expedited basis and potentially lose revenues, which could have an
adverse financial effect. In addition, there is a risk that claims may be
made arising from environmental remediation upon closure of one or
more of the sites.
Coal supply agreements
The Company’s coal supply agreements typically require the delivery
of a fixed or minimum quantity of coal at a location, at a time and
over a period stipulated in the agreement. To the extent that any
contracted volumes cannot be delivered as agreed, the Company
may be liable to pay substantial compensation for the resulting losses,
costs and charges (including demurrage) incurred by the buyer.
As customer contracts expire, the Company will be likely to renew
contracts with long-term customers, or seek to enter into new
contracts with new buyers and markets, depending on the feasibility
of this. Tonnes that are not contracted are sold into the spot market
at either index-linked or fixed price levels. The Company’s strategy
for 2019 will be to increase its term contracted position as well as
to target end-user customers as opposed to traders.
Most of the Company’s coal supply agreements also require
the delivery of coal meeting specified quality thresholds for
characteristics such as moisture content, sulphur content and ash
content. Depending on these quality thresholds, coal will be sold into
markets that are the highest paying for coal with the relevant qualities.
The Company derives a significant portion of its revenue from a limited
number of customers, and the loss of, or a reduction in, sales to any
of these customers could materially and adversely affect its business,
financial condition and results of operations.
Joint ventures and reliance on third parties
The Company holds a number of joint venture interests, including
interests in the Middlemount, Moolarben, HVO, Mount Thorley and
Warkworth joint ventures, PWCS, NCIG and WICET, with other parties.
Decision making, management, marketing and other key aspects of
each joint venture are regulated by agreements between the relevant
joint venture participants. Under these agreements, certain decisions
require the endorsement of third party joint venture participants and
the Company relies on the co-operation of these third parties for the
success of its current operations and/or the development of its growth
projects and the transportation of increased production.
The Company cannot control the actions of third party joint venture
participants, and therefore cannot guarantee that joint ventures will
be operated or managed in accordance with the preferred direction
or strategy of the Company. There is a risk that the veto rights of,
or consents required from, the joint venture partners will prevent the
business and assets of a joint venture from being developed, operated
and managed in accordance with that preferred direction or strategy.
The Company also uses contractors and other third parties for
exploration, mining and other services generally, and is reliant on
a number of third parties for the success of its current operations
and for the development of its growth projects. While this is normal
for the mining and exploration industry, problems caused by third
parties may arise which may have an impact on the performance and
operations of the Company. Any failure by counterparties to perform
their obligations may have a material adverse effect on the Company
and there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful
in attempting to enforce its contractual rights through legal action.
Competition
The Company faces competition in all aspects of its business,
including sales and marketing, pricing of coal, production capacity,
coal quality and specifications, transportation capacity, cost structure
and brand recognition. The Company’s coal business competes in
the domestic and international markets with other large domestic and
international coal producers. An increase in production or reduction
in prices of competing coal from both Australia and overseas may
adversely impact the Company’s ability to sell its coal products and
the price to be attained for sales. Increased competition in the future,
including from new competitors, may emerge. This competition may
relate not only to coal produced and sold, but also to competition for
the acquisition of new projects, which may adversely affect the ability
of the Company to acquire new interests on acceptable terms should
it wish to make such acquisitions.
Further industry consolidation could result in competitors improving
their scale or productivity or competitors may develop lower-cost
geological coal resources or develop resources in lower cost base
geographies, increasing pressure on the Company’s ability to maintain
its margins.
There is significant competition within the resources industry in
Australia, the United States and Asia. Furthermore, new entrants
to the industry may emerge in one or more of those markets,
increasing the competitive pressure on the Company. This pressure
could adversely affect the Company’s market share and financial
performance and position.
The Company supplies coal as fuel to, among others, the thermal
power generation industry and, as a result, is affected by the demand
and growth of the thermal power industry. Thermal coal as a fuel
source competes, among others, with natural gas, and the price of
natural gas can therefore affect coal sales. The natural gas market
has been volatile historically and prices in this market are subject to
wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply
and demand. The thermal power generation industry is also affected
by the development of alternative energy sources, climate change
and global environmental factors.