OPERATIONS
2018 was our first full year of attributable
production from Mount Thorley Warkworth and
Hunter Valley Operations following their acquisition
in September 2017.
Yancoal’s operations produced a record 50.0 million
tonnes saleable coal for 2018 (100% basis), up
59% on the year prior; with the Moolarben complex
achieving a new annual total saleable coal production
record of 16.5 million tonnes, up 33% on the
year prior.
The Mount Thorley Warkworth and Hunter
Valley Operations mines produced annual totals
of 12.1 million tonnes and 13.3 million tonnes
respectively.
These three tier-one assets led an increase in total
attributable coal sales of 68% on the year prior; with
Yancoal achieving total sales of 37.1 million tonnes
in 2018, up from 22.1 million tonnes in 2017.
Supported by increased market demand and our
tier-one production performance, Yancoal’s thermal
coal sales were up 88% on the prior year, achieving
a 2018 total of 29.9 million tonnes, including
purchased coal, compared with 15.9 million tonnes
in 2017.
We experienced similar positive sales growth across
metallurgical coal, as global demand and prices
remained strong for the majority of the year. Yancoal
achieved total metallurgical coal sales of 7.2 million
tonnes, including purchased coal, up 16% on the
2017 total of 6.2 million tonnes.
Our ability to optimise our portfolio and implement
new operating efficiencies across each of the tier-
one assets enabled us to achieve a new Yancoal
total production record of 50 million tonnes of
saleable coal.
Yancoal’s capacity to blend its coals across the
New South Wales operations provided the flexibility
required to meet market needs, while maximising
price and sales opportunities on the spot market.
In Queensland, Yancoal also maintained the flexibility
required to adjust its washing of product coal at the
Yarrabee open cut mine; this allowed it to strategically
target increasing market demand for PCI coals
throughout 2018.
Yancoal continued to implement cost reduction
strategies across each of its mines, restructuring
the Mount Thorley Warkworth operation to introduce
significant fleet efficiencies to improve maintenance
times and overall haul rates.
Similar efficiencies continue to be developed for
implementation at the Hunter Valley Operations
joint venture with JV partner Glencore, with both
companies aligned in continuing to pursue synergies
wherever possible.
As coal remains a critical source for global baseload
energy, Yancoal is well positioned to meet increasing
demand for high quality product in both established
and developing markets.
FUTURE GROWTH
While this has been a year of exceptional production
gains, we are not resting on our success.
Yancoal continues to pursue its long-term strategy
for organic growth, with a commitment to progressing
projects across each of its operations; most notably
our tier-one assets.
Moolarben, Mount Thorley Warkworth and Hunter
Valley Operations provide the pathway for our future
and we are carefully considering all options for
potential growth via both extension and expansion.
In an evolving regulatory and approvals environment,
we are taking the time required to appropriately
navigate the changing political landscape.
Key projects include further extensions of the
Moolarben open cut pits, and the conceptual
underground mine at Mount Thorley Warkworth
which completed exploration drilling for the
prefeasibility on the target seams at the end of 2018.
STAKEHOLDER FOCUS
Consistency of behaviour establishes confidence
among shareholders and partners. We are using the
success of 2018 as a benchmark for all operational
teams. The emphasis is on the controllable production,
cost and expenditure targets, as these underpin our
ability to continue delivering shareholder returns.
Our people have the ability, ambition and focus to
push Yancoal further and to do so safely, efficiently
and without peer.
ANNUAL REPORT 2018         13