DIRECTORS’ REPORT      ANNUAL REPORT 2018      57
Yancoal has an allocation of approximately 19.6Mt per annum
(100% basis).
Wiggins Island Coal Export Terminal (“WICET”) 9.4%
Yancoal is one of five owners of WICET, which has a capacity of
27.0Mt per annum. Yancoal’s contracted capacity is 1.5Mt per
annum, allocated to the Yarrabee Mine.
Rail
Yancoal is supported by the following rail networks to transport
product from mine to port:
––
the NSW Hunter Valley Coal Chain supports the Moolarben,
Mount Thorley Warkworth, Hunter Valley Operations, Austar,
Ashton, Stratford Duralie, and Donaldson operations, with coal
transported to the Port of Newcastle;
––
the QLD Blackwater System supports the Yarrabee operation,
transporting coal to the Port of Gladstone; and
––
the QLD Goonyella System supports the Middlemount operation,
with coal transported to the Port of Hay Point and Abbot Point
Coal Terminal.
Take-or-Pay3
Yancoal’s unutilised take-or-pay exposure increased from the year
prior (2017: $60.7 million; equity basis) to $84.9 million in rail and
port commitments in excess of shipped sales. The increase of
$24.2 million was attributable to the take-or-pay exposure acquired
from the former Coal & Allied assets (full year $32.9 million) and under-
utilisation of WICET port capacity ($7.9 million). This was offset by a
$16.6 million reduction from increased utilisation by Moolarben and
trading with third parties.
Yancoal continues to implement strategic measures to reduce
take‑or‑pay exposure across the Group by trading between sites
and with other users.
A review of the business of the Group during the year and a
discussion on the Group’s future business development are provided
in the Management Discussion and Analysis on pages 40 to 51 of this
annual report.
Descriptions of possible risks and uncertainties that the Group may
be facing can be found in the Corporate Governance Statement
on pages 90 to 98 of this annual report. Also, the financial risk
management objectives and policies of the Group can be found in
Note D9 to the consolidated financial statements.
During the year, the Company was not aware of any non-compliance
with any relevant laws and regulations that had a significant impact
on it.
An analysis of the Group’s performance during the year using financial
key performance indicators is provided in the Management Discussion
and Analysis on pages 40 to 44 of this annual report.
All references herein to other sections or reports in this annual report
form part of this Report of the Directors.
Community and Environment
Yancoal’s Health, Safety and Environment Committee sets the
direction for the Company’s continued commitment to operating its
mines to the highest environmental standards and in accordance with
legislative requirements.
Each mine implements proactive strategies to update and monitor its
environmental management systems and practices to meet its mine
plan approvals and individual licences to operate.
3	 All numbers provided on an equity basis.
Operating to stringent environmental management conditions, including
the on-site and off-site management and monitoring of potential
dust and noise impacts, Yancoal continues to work with State and
Federal Government departments to ensure full transparency in its
environmental reporting.
In 2018, Yancoal contributed $834,649 via its Community Support
Program into local and regional health, environmental, education and
community initiatives capable of making a positive difference in the
regions in which it operates.
Yancoal continues to work co-operatively with its community
stakeholders, relying upon community consultative committees, local
newsletters, local media, community days and site-specific websites
to help ensure they are engaged and informed of relevant matters
related to nearby operations.
Greenhouse gas and energy data reporting requirements
As Australia’s largest pure play thermal coal producer, we
acknowledge we have a role to play in mitigating the emissions
generated by our operations and supporting investment into low
emission technology to assist the reduction of downstream emissions
from the consumption of coal products.
We also understand the growing interest by stakeholders regarding
the potential risks and opportunities posed to our business and the
broader sector as a result of an anticipated global shift towards a
lower-carbon economy.
Recognising this, we continue to consider the adoption of the
Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (“TCFD”)
Recommendations, established by the G20 Financial Stability Board,
as the framework to guide our climate-related disclosures.
This includes the desire for greater transparency in the way we
identify and mitigate potential risks posed by changes to our external
environment from a policy, legal, market demand, reputational and
technological perspective.
Governance
Governance of climate-related matters, including risks and
opportunities, sits within Yancoal’s governance framework.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the oversight and approval
of risk management and financial investment decisions, including
those relating to climate change. The Audit and Risk Management
Committee and Health, Safety and Environment Committee are
specifically responsible for the consideration of climate-related risks
and related risk management strategies.
The Board regularly considers how climate change may drive changes
to physical, regulatory, commercial and operating environments to
inform the development of medium- to long-term goals and strategies.
Reporting on our emissions
Yancoal reports its operational direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2)
emissions on an annual basis in line with the National Greenhouse and
Energy Reporting legislation.
The Group has implemented systems and processes for the collection
and calculation of the data required and submitted its 2017/2018 S19
Energy and Emissions Report to the Federal Clean Energy Regulator
on 31 October 2018.
Overall, on an operational control basis, our total Scope 1 and
Scope 2 emissions for the period ended 30 June 2018 totalled
2,114,527tCO2-e, a 1% increase on the year prior. The majority of
Scope 1 emissions relate to fugitive emissions associated with the
underground and open cut mining operations, while Scope 2 emissions
stem from the consumption of electricity purchased from the grid.