INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (CONTINUED)
174      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
Key Audit Matter
How the matter was addressed during the audit
Impairment of non-current assets of Watagan
(Note E2(b)(i))
As the Group does not control Watagan but has significant
influence, Watagan is accounted for as an associate. The ongoing
losses of Watagan are not recognised by the Group as it does
not have contractual agreements or a constructive obligation to
contribute to Watagan. A disclosure of the summarised financial
position and results of Watagan are included in the financial
statements in note E2(b)(i).
As at 31 December 2018 Watagan had total property, plant and
equipment, and mining tenements of $1.184 billion. Disclosed in
note E2(b)(i) there is significant operational uncertainty due to
Donaldson being on care and maintenance and Austar having
ongoing operational issues.
The Group as the operator of Watagan has performed an
impairment assessment as to the recoverability of these assets
and has concluded that these assets are not impaired as at
31 December 2018. In preparing the impairment assessment,
management has used a set of key assumptions which differ from
the assumptions used by the Group in performing impairment
assessments for its other assets subject to impairment testing.
The impairment assessment is complex and involves significant
judgment.
Watagan’s financial position and performance are not
consolidated by the Group, however, disclosure is required
to reflect the underlying financial position and financial
performance of Watagan in the notes to the financial statements.
As Watagan may be reconsolidated by the Group in the future, a
material impairment may be required at such time. As a result, it
is considered to be a key audit matter.
Our audit procedures included, among others:
•
Reviewing and challenging the position papers
prepared by management for the assessment
of the carrying value of the underlying Watagan
assets
•
Evaluating managements’ key valuation
assumptions and estimates used in the
impairment testing. This includes, documenting
the skills and experience of the experts preparing
the valuation workings to consider whether we
can rely on the work they performed
•
Performing sensitivity analysis on key inputs
•
Reviewing the Group’s disclosures included in the
financial statements for Watagan’s impairment
testing
•
Engaging our corporate finance specialists to
review the impairment model and various inputs.
Acquisition of additional 28.9% of Warkworth Associates and disposal of 16.6% of HVO Joint Venture
(Note E1)
In September 2017 the Group acquired Coal & Allied Industries
Limited (Coal & Allied). The acquisition accounting was finalised
during 2018.
In completing the acquisition of Coal & Allied, the Group entered
into agreements to acquire a further 28.9% interest in the
Warkworth Associates Joint Venture (Warkworth), and divesting
a 16.6% interest in HVO Joint Venture. These transactions were
completed in 2018. The Warkworth acquisition consideration of
US$230 million has been allocated to the identifiable assets and
liabilities of Warkworth. The divestment of HVO has recorded a
gain on disposal of A$78 million.
There is a high level of judgement and estimation involved in
calculating the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired by
the Group. The disposal accounting has involved estimates and
judgement to allocate the identifiable assets and liabilities of
Coal & Allied to its business units. Given the extent of judgement
required and significant estimates involved, we consider this a key
audit matter.
Our audit procedures included, among others:
•
Assessing the source and appropriateness of
key assumptions made in the purchase price
allocation
•
In assessing key assumptions we utilised our
valuation experts who assisted with assessing
the valuation methodology against accepted
industry practice, discount rates, cross checks of
the valuation, coal prices and forecast foreign
exchange rates
•
Comparing the accounting valuation with the
taxation valuation to check the deferred taxation
calculations to consider whether deferred
taxation balances were recognised appropriately
•
Agreeing the consideration paid to supporting
documentation
•
Assessing the Group’s acquisition accounting
disclosures.
181