INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (CONTINUED)
176      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
Information other than the Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon
The directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information in the
Group’s fi nancial report for the year ended 31 December 2018, but does not include the fi nancial statements and our
auditor’s report thereon.
Our opinion on the fi nancial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of
assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the fi nancial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and,
in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the fi nancial statements or our
knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information;
we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements
The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of fi nancial statements that give a true and fair
view in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards and the Corporations Act 2001 and for such internal control
as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of fi nancial statements that give a true and fair
view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the fi nancial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as
a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis
of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic
alternative but to do so.
The directors are responsible for overseeing the Group’s fi nancial reporting process. In Note A(i), the directors also
state, in accordance with Accounting Standard AASB 101 Presentation of Financial Statements, that the fi nancial
statements comply with IFRS.
Auditor’s responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the fi nancial statements based on our audit. Our objectives are to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the fi nancial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is
a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Australian Auditing
Standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error
and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to infl uence the
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these fi nancial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards, we exercise professional judgement and
maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
•
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the fi nancial statements, whether due to fraud or error,
design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is suffi  cient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from
fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions,
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
•
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the eff ectiveness of the
Group’s internal control. However, we will communicate to you in writing concerning any signifi cant defi ciencies
in internal control relevant to the audit of the fi nancial statements that we have identifi ed during the audit.
•
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and
related disclosures made by management.
183