ASSETS AND GROWTH
Through 2018 Yancoal consolidated the high
quality assets secured in late 2017 through the
Coal & Allied transaction.
Yancoal anticipates demand for its high quality
low-sulphur coal to remain healthy through 2019.
In combination with a constrained market supply
response for these products, this should result
in premiums the Company can achieve through
the year.
In the year ahead, Yancoal will continue
the exploration, expansion and optimisation
efforts across the three tier-one assets of
Mount Thorley Warkworth, Moolarben and
Hunter Valley Operations.
Key projects include an underground mine
concept at Mount Thorley Warkworth.
The underground mine could add six million
tonnes per annum of raw coal production.
Exploration drilling for the pre-feasibility
on the target seams concluded in late 2018.
At Moolarben, mine plan modifications could add
a further six million tonnes per annum of raw coal
production to the production profile. It is through
optimisation of the approved operations that this
would be achieved.
At the third tier-one asset, Hunter Valley
Operations, Yancoal continues to work with
joint venture partner Glencore Coal to implement
a strategic review of existing operational,
maintenance and fleet efficiencies. The focus
is on delivering operational synergies identified
during the joint venture transaction. This project
contributes to the ongoing operating cost
control efforts.
Yancoal will continue its drive towards
increased production and cost efficiency.
Expansion and extension projects across
its tier-one assets combined with ongoing cost
minimising efforts underpin future cash flow.
Outside the existing assets, Yancoal remains
open to strategic acquisitions.
OUR
OUTLOOK
Blending of our coal products to meet evolving
market conditions is an ongoing opportunity to
maximise the revenue potential of our asset base.
The aim is to combine coals of various qualities
and characteristics to achieve a higher average
realised price.
GUIDANCE
Our focus is on the controllable operational factors
that drive the financial outcomes. In 2019 the
company intends to increase its production while
maintaining steady operating costs.
The guidance for saleable coal production in 2019
is approximately 35 million tonnes (attributable),
up from 32.9 million tonnes in 2018. The majority
of the output will come from the three tier-one
assets, Mount Thorley Warkworth, Moolarben
and Hunter Valley Operations (in 2018 it was
90% of 32.9 million tonnes).
Yancoal will maintain strong cost discipline, with
2019 cash costs (excluding Government royalties)
expected to remain flat at around A$62.5/t (2018:
A$63/t)1. Yancoal continues to secure efficiency
gains from the assets acquired in 2017; this enables
the flat operating cost forecast despite the broader
industry cost pressure.
Forecast capital expenditure for 2019 is around
A$285 million (attributable); this is consistent
with prior three years, despite the increased
operational production profile.
1 Operating cash costs exclude Government royalties.
2019e is an estimate for the forward period.
6         YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD