NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      ANNUAL REPORT 2018      123
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The application of the Group’s accounting policy for exploration and evaluation expenditure requires judgement in determining whether it
is likely that future economic benefits are likely, which may be based on assumptions about future events or circumstances. Estimates and
assumptions may change if new information becomes available. If after expenditure is capitalised information becomes available suggesting
that the recovery of expenditure is unlikely, the amount capitalised is written off in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Other
Comprehensive Income in the period when the new information becomes available.
31 December
2018
$M
31 December
2017
$M
Opening net book amount
565
498
Acquisition through business combination
12
108
Other additions
2
3
Transfers to mining tenements
(6)
(26)
Transfers to mine development
(10)
–
Transfer to assets classified as held for sale
–
(18)
Closing net book amount
563
565
C5 INTANGIBLES
Accounting Policies
(i) Goodwill
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is recognised at cost and subsequently measured at cost less any impairment losses.
The cost represents the excess of the cost of a business combination over the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent
liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
See Note C3 for further details on impairment of assets.
(ii) Computer software
Computer software is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation is calculated
on a straight-line basis over the period of expected benefit, which ranges from 2.5 to 10 years.
(iii) Water rights
Water rights have been recognised at cost and are assessed annually for impairment or more frequently if events or changes in
circumstances indicate that they might be impaired. The water rights have been determined to have an indefinite useful life as there is
no expiry date on the licences.
(iv) Other
Other intangibles include access rights, other mining licences and management rights associated with the Group’s right to manage
Port Waratah Coal Services. These intangibles have a finite useful life and are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and
impairment losses. Amortisation of these other intangibles is calculated as the shorter of the life of the mine or agreement and using
a units of production basis in tonnes, or on a straight-line basis. The estimated useful lives vary from 10 to 25 years.