NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018
130      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
The ability of the Group to fund the investment in its ongoing activities, invest in new opportunities and meet current commitments is dependent
on available cash and access to third party capital. This section contains disclosure on interest-bearing liabilities, contingencies, financial risk
management, reserves and contributed equity that are required to finance the Group’s activities.
D1 INTEREST-BEARING LOAN TO ASSOCIATE
Accounting Policy
Financial assets classified as loans are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active
market. They are included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than 12 months after the reporting period which
are classified as non-current assets. Refer to Note F6(b) for detailed policies in relation to recognition, measurement, impairment and
derecognition of interest-bearing loan to associate.
31 December
2018
$M
31 December
2017
$M
Opening balance
712
775
Repayments
(254)
(214)
Drawdowns
377
151
Closing balance
835
712
On 31 March 2016 the Group transferred its interest in three of its 100% owned NSW coal mining operations, being the Austar, Ashton and
Donaldson coal mines, to Watagan Mining Company Pty Limited (“Watagan”) for a purchase price of $1,363 million. The purchase price was
funded by way of a $1,363 million loan from Yancoal Australia Ltd to Watagan bearing interest of BBSY plus 7.06% with a maturity date of
1 April 2025. The outstanding interest and principal of this loan is guaranteed by Yankuang Group Co. Ltd, the Group’s ultimate parent entity.
Watagan can make prepayments of the outstanding loan balance with any such prepayment capable of redraw in the future.
D2 INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES
Accounting Policies
(i) Interest-bearing liabilities
Interest-bearing liabilities (excluding financial guarantees) are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs. They are subsequently
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. US dollar interest-bearing loans are designated as a hedge instrument
in a cash flow hedge (refer to note D7). Refer to Note F6(b) for detailed policies in relation to recognition, classification, measurement and
derecognition of interest-bearing liabilities.
(ii) Leases
Property, plant and equipment held by the Group under leases that transfer to the Group substantially all of the risks and rewards of
ownership are classified as finance leases.
The leased property, plant and equipment are initially measured at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present
value of the minimum lease payments. Subsequently they are accounted for in accordance with the property, plant and equipment
accounting policy.
The corresponding minimum lease payments are included in lease liabilities within interest-bearing liabilities. Each lease payment is allocated
between finance cost and a reduction in the outstanding lease liability. The finance cost is charged to profit or loss over the lease period so
as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
The net gains arising on the sale of an asset and the leasing back of the same asset using a finance lease are included as deferred income
in the balance sheet and are released to the profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
(iii) Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of assets, that necessarily take a substantial period of
time to prepare for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for
their intended use or sale.
All other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
D – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING