DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
68      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
29)	Miller Pohang Coal Co Pty Ltd
30)	Monash Coal Holdings Pty Limited
31)	Monash Coal Pty Ltd
32)	Moolarben Coal Mines Pty Limited
33)	Moolarben Coal Operations Pty Ltd
34)	Moolarben Coal Sales Pty Ltd
35)	Mount Thorley Coal Loading Ltd
36)	Mount Thorley Operations Pty Limited
37)	Namoi Valley Coal Pty Limited
38)	Nords Wharf Land Pty Ltd
39)	Northern (Rhondda) Collieries Pty Ltd
40)	Novacoal Australia Pty Limited
41)	Oaklands Coal Pty Limited
42)	Parallax Holdings Pty Limited
43)	Proserpina Coal Pty Ltd
44)	R.W. Miller (Holdings) Limited
45)	SASE Pty Ltd
46)	Stratford Coal Marketing Pty Ltd
47)	Stratford Coal Pty. Ltd.
48)	Warkworth Coal Sales Ltd
49)	Warkworth Mining Limited
50)	Warkworth Pastoral Co Pty Ltd
51)	Warkworth Tailings Treatment Pty Ltd
52)	Westralian Prospectors N.L.
53)	Yancoal Australia Sales Pty Ltd
54)	Yancoal Resources Limited
55)	Yarrabee Coal Company Pty. Ltd.
– Current key positions (Company Secretary) within Group
1)	 Abakk Pty Ltd
2)	 Ashton Coal Mines Limited
3)	 Ashton Coal Operations Pty Limited
4)	 Austar Coal Mine Pty Limited
5)	 Donaldson Coal Finance Pty Limited
6)	 Donaldson Coal Holdings Limited
7)	 Donaldson Coal Pty Ltd
8)	 Gloucester (Sub Holdings 1) Pty Limited
9)	 Newcastle Coal Company Pty Ltd
10)	Primecoal International Pty Ltd
11)	White Mining (NSW) Pty Limited
12)	White Mining Limited
13)	White Mining Services Pty Limited
14)	Watagan Mining Company Pty Ltd
Interests in shares and options
68,894 fully paid Yancoal ordinary shares
Paul Stringer. Chief Operating Officer (29 May 2018 – current).
Experience and expertise
Mr Stringer, aged 64, was appointed as Chief Operating Officer (COO)
on 29 May 2018.
Mr Stringer has over 45 years’ experience in mining and mining
related industries. Prior to being appointed as COO, he served as
GM of Syntech Resources Cameby Downs Mine (since 2012), GM of
Yancoal Yarrabee Mine (since 2013), GM of Yancoal’s Queensland/
Western Australia Mines (since 2014), and GM of Yancoal’s East
Coast Mines (since 2016).
Current directorships and key positions within Group
1)	 Warkworth Coal Sales Ltd
2)	 Warkworth Mining Limited
3)	 Warkworth Pastoral Co Pty Ltd
4)	 Warkworth Tailings Treatment Pty Ltd
Interests in shares and options
56,131 fully paid Yancoal ordinary shares
2.	 Remuneration principles and framework
The Company’s governing principles for remuneration are:
––
to ensure remuneration is equitable, aligned with the long-term
interests of the Company and its shareholders and complies with
relevant Company policies, including the Diversity Policy;
––
to provide market competitive remuneration and conditions to
attract and retain skilled and motivated employees;
––
to structure incentives to link reward with the achievement of the
Company’s strategies and challenging business objectives and to
the delivery of sustainable returns over the long term; and
––
to reward based on performance, acknowledging the contribution
of outstanding performers.
2.1	Remuneration governance framework
Consistent with its Board Charter, the Board oversees the
appointment, remuneration and performance of all KMP other than
Directors and other members of the Executive Committee. On these
issues, the Board receives recommendations from the Nomination
and Remuneration Committee.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee’s objective is to assist
the Board by making recommendations in relation to:
––
Board composition and succession planning for the Board;
––
remuneration levels and structure for KMP and other members of
the Executive Committee as appointed from time to time;
––
the public reporting of remuneration for KMP and other members
of the Executive Committee;
––
the performance assessment of the Executive Committee;
––
designing Company remuneration policy and regulations with
regard to corporate governance; and
––
diversity.