CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
96      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
In recent years, China has also taken steps to address severe air
pollution in many Chinese cities by adopting a range of policies to
lower carbon emissions and reduce coal usage.
Extensive government regulations relating to climate change impose
costs on the mining operations of the Company, and future regulations
could increase those costs, limit the Company’s ability to produce
and sell coal, or reduce demand for the Company’s coal products.
Technological change
Thermal coal as a source of energy competes with other forms of
electricity generation (such as hydro, solar and wind). In recent years,
the global shift from conventional fuels to renewable sources of energy
has created greater competition for thermal coal in the market.
As renewable technologies become more efficient and cost effective,
they may gain an economic advantage over coal-fired and other
fossil fuel based electricity generation. These economic factors,
combined with increasing costs to comply with emission limits for
other air pollutants, may result in the continued retirement of existing
coal-powered generation capacity, and the cancellation of planned
additional coal-fired power capacity, which may reduce demand for
thermal coal in the market.
Technology
The Company’s business relies on the performance, reliability and
availability of its information technology systems. Information and
operating technology may be subject to international cyber security
threats. Breaches could result in (but are not limited to) the loss of
sensitive information, unplanned outage of business-critical systems,
environmental damage and misappropriation of Company funds. The
Company’s information technology infrastructure in general may also
be adversely affected by factors such as server damage, equipment
faults, power failure, computer viruses, misuse by employees
or contractors, telecommunications failures, external malicious
intervention such as hacking, terrorism, fire, natural disasters, or
weather interventions. Such events are largely beyond the Company’s
control, and may affect its ability to carry on its operations efficiently.
Key personnel
A number of key personnel are important to attaining the business
goals of the Company. One or more of these key employees could
leave their employment or cease to actively participate in the
management of the Company and this may adversely affect the ability
of the Company to conduct its business and, accordingly, affect its
financial performance and its share price. There may be a limited
number of persons with the requisite experience and skills to serve in
the Company’s senior management positions if existing management
leave the Company. If the Company cannot attract, train and retain
qualified managers, and other personnel, the Company may be
unable to successfully manage its growth or otherwise compete
effectively in the Australian coal industry.
The Company is also dependent on attracting qualified technical
employees to provide services in relation to certain of its coal and
other mining operations. Coal mining is a labour-intensive industry.
The Company’s future success will depend greatly on its and its
mining contractors’ continued ability to attract and retain skilled
and qualified personnel on economic terms.
Fraud or misconduct
Any fraud, misrepresentation, money laundering or other misconduct
by the Company’s employees, customers, service providers, business
partners or other third parties could result in violations of relevant
laws and regulations by the Company and subject the Company to
corresponding regulatory sanctions. These unlawful activities and
other misconduct may have occurred in the past and may occur in the
future, and may result in civil and criminal liability under increasingly
stringent laws or cause serious reputational or financial harm to the
Company. While the Company has in place and is implementing
measures aimed at detecting and preventing employees’ and external
parties’ fraud, misrepresentation, money laundering, commercial
bribery and other misconduct, the Company may not be able to timely
detect or prevent such activities, which could subject the Company
to regulatory investigations and criminal and civil liability, harm its
reputation and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.
Environmental activism
Environmental lobby groups in both QLD and NSW have recently
made submissions opposing both operation and expansion of coal
mines in an attempt to prevent new mine developments or expansion
of existing mines on the basis of environmental concerns. Increased
community concern and adverse actions taken by community and
environmental groups may delay or prevent the Company from
progressing new mine developments or development or expansion
of existing mines, or may mean that those mines are subject to
conditions that adversely affect their profitability and consequently
the financial performance of the Company.
Changes in government policy, regulation or legislation
The resources industry is subject to extensive legislation,
regulations and supervision by a number of Federal and State
regulatory organisations.
Any future legislation and regulatory change may affect the
resources industry and may adversely affect the Company’s financial
performance and position, such as future laws that may limit the
emission of greenhouse gases or the use of coal in power generation.
Environment and planning
In recent years, State Government policies of NSW and QLD have
been introduced in the interests of protecting agricultural and urban
land from the effects of mining. These include the QLD Government’s
Central Queensland Plan and Regional Planning Interests Act and
the NSW Government’s Strategic Regional Land Use Policy, Aquifer
Interference Policy, and 2013 amendments to the State Environmental
Planning Policy (Mining, Petroleum Production and Extractive
Industries) 2007. Each of these policies is relevant to the areas in
which the Company has mining operations. Accordingly, there is no
assurance that the future development and exploration activities of
the Company will result in profitable or commercially viable mining
operations in these areas.
In 2013, the NSW State Government introduced the fit and proper
person consideration in making decisions about mining rights
including the grant, transfer, renewal, cancellation and suspension
of such rights. This allows the Government to consider a miner’s
conduct (in particular its compliance with environmental and mining
legislation), as well as a miner’s financial capabilities and technical
expertise. In recent years, the NSW State Government has also
significantly increased the maximum penalties for breaches of mining
and environmental legislation, and the resources of regulators to
investigate possible breaches and prosecute mining companies.
These changes have resulted in the updating of compliance
programs, and increased the risk of prosecution for breaches
of relevant legislation.
In 2013, the QLD State Government reviewed the method of
calculating the financial assurance required to be provided by mining
companies in respect of their rehabilitation liability and this review
lead to a significant increase in financial assurance amounts that are
required to be covered by bank guarantees. The Audit Office of NSW
has carried out a review of rehabilitation liabilities in respect of mines
and the review has led to an increase in the amount of security
required in respect of rehabilitation liabilities.