CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
92      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
Yanzhou’s and Yankuang’s capacity to meet their respective funding
commitments will depend on their financial position at the time and
their capacity to raise the necessary funds to meet the commitments.
Yancoal’s capacity to source further funding from Yanzhou will depend
on Yanzhou’s willingness and financial capacity to provide that
funding. There can be no assurance that Yanzhou will be in a position
to provide financial support to Yancoal or that Yankuang will be in a
position to meet its obligations under the guarantee in respect of the
Watagan Agreements.
Adverse foreign exchange rate movements
Foreign exchange risk is the risk of the Company sustaining loss
through adverse movements in exchange rates. Such losses
can impact the Company’s financial position and performance
and the level of additional funding required to support the
Company’s businesses.
The liabilities, earnings and cash flows of the Company are influenced
by movements in exchange rates, especially movements in the
A$:US$ exchange rate.
While the Company operates entirely in Australia and its costs
are primarily denominated in its functional currency, the A$,
foreign currency exposure arises particularly in relation to coal
supply contracts, which generally are priced and payable in US$,
procurement of imported plant and equipment, which can be priced
in US$ or other foreign currencies, and debt denominated in US$.
The impact of exchange rate movements will vary depending
on factors such as the nature, magnitude and duration of the
movements, the extent to which currency risk is hedged under
forward exchange contracts or other hedging instruments and the
terms of these contracts.
The hedging policy of the Company aims to protect against the
volatility of cash expenditures or reduced collection in the above
mentioned transactions as well as to reduce the volatility of profit
or loss for retranslation of US dollar denominated loans at each
period end.
Hedging through bank-issued instruments
Operating foreign exchange risk that arises from firm commitments
or highly probable transactions is managed through the use of bank
issued forward foreign currency contracts and collar option contracts.
The Company hedges a portion of contracted US dollar sales and
asset purchases settled in foreign currencies in each currency to
mitigate the adverse impact on cash flow due to the future rise or fall
in Australian dollars against the relevant currencies.
Coal prices and coal demand risk
The Company generates revenue from the sale of coal. In developing
its business plan and operating budget, the Company makes certain
assumptions regarding coal prices and demand for coal. The prices
which the Company will receive for its coal depend on numerous
market factors beyond its control and, accordingly, some underlying
coal price assumptions relied on by the Company may materially
change and actual coal prices and demand may differ materially from
those expected.
The prices for coal are determined predominantly by world markets,
which are affected by numerous factors, including the outcome of
future sale contract negotiations, general economic activity, industrial
production levels, changes in foreign exchange rates, changes in
energy demand and demand for steel, changes in the supply of
seaborne coal, technological changes, changes in production levels
and events interfering with supply, changes in international freight
rates or other transportation infrastructure and costs, the costs of
other commodities and substitutes for coal, market changes in coal
quality requirements, government regulations which restrict use of
coal, and tax impositions on the resources industry, all of which are
outside the control of the Company and may have a material adverse
impact on coal prices and demand.
In addition, the coal price is highly dependent on the outlook for coal
consumption in large Asian economies, such as China, Japan and
India, as well as any changes in government policy regarding coal
or energy policy in those countries.
Absent offsetting factors, significant and sustained adverse
movements in demand for coal and, consequently, coal prices (both
generally and in relation to particular types and classes of coal) may
have a material adverse impact on the ongoing financial performance
and financial position of the Company or may result in the Company
not proceeding with the development of new mines and projects due
to such development not being economically viable.
Any weakening in coal prices or any deterioration prompted by further
reduction in demand or addition of new tonnes to the seaborne
market (for example from thermal coal exports from the US) would
have a material adverse impact on the financial performance of the
Company and its capacity to undertake development projects.
Coal production risks
Improvement in the Company’s financial performance is dependent
on the Company being able to sustain or increase coal production
and decrease operating costs on a per tonne basis. The Company’s
success or failure in improving productivity will become particularly
important to the Company’s financial performance if the coal price
remains at current levels or falls further.
The Company’s coal production can be impacted by a number
of factors, including unforeseen geological or geotechnical issues
(particularly in the Company’s underground operations), changes or
variations in coal quality or geological, hydrologic or other conditions,
adverse weather including abnormal wet weather conditions
(particularly in Queensland), unforeseen delays or complexities
in installing and operating mining longwall systems, protracted
breakdown of coal handling infrastructure and other mining equipment
and rail and port breakdowns and outages. Regulatory factors and the
occurrence of other operating risks can also limit production.
Debt costs
The majority of the Company’s loans are US$ LIBOR based
floating rate loans and currently there are no interest rate hedging
arrangements in place. As a result, any increase in the US$ LIBOR
from current levels will expose the Company to higher debt costs.