INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT      ANNUAL REPORT 2018      175
Key Audit Matter
How the matter was addressed during the audit
Impairment of non-current assets
(Note C3)
A substantial portion of the value of the Group’s non-current
assets are tangible and intangible assets which are subject to
an impairment assessment and revaluations in accordance with
AASB 136 Impairment of Assets or AASB 9 Financial Instruments.
These assets include property plant and equipment (note C1),
mining tenements (note C2), intangible assets (note C5), royalty
receivable (note C9) and long-term receivables from joint
ventures (note C7).
Asset valuation was a key audit matter due to the size of the
balances, being 72% of the Group’s non-current assets, and
the level of judgement required to be applied to prepare the
impairment assessment.
Our audit procedures included, among others:
•
Assessing the determination of the Group’s Cash-
Generating Units
•
Considering the assessment of impairment
indicators which require an impairment test
•
Evaluating the forecast commodity prices
including comparison to available market
information
•
Comparing estimated operating costs and capital
expenditure used in the impairment assessment
with the latest approved mine plans and budgets
•
Comparing the life of mine plan used in
impairment with reserves and resources reported
by internal geological experts. Evaluating the
competency and objectivity of the experts by
considering their professional qualifications and
experience
•
Working with our valuation specialists to compare
key assumptions such as discount rates and
foreign exchange rates to market information
•
Performing sensitivity analysis on the key
assumptions
•
Assessing the Group’s impairment disclosures.
Taxation
(Note B6)
The Group is subject to income taxes in Australia. Significant
judgement is required in determining the provision for income
taxes and associated deferred taxation balances. The Group
estimates its tax liabilities based on the Group’s interpretation of
taxation laws and regulations. Where the final outcome of these
matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded
such differences will impact the current and deferred tax assets
and liabilities in the period in which such a determination is
made.
The Company must comply with the provisions of the Continuity
of Ownership Test (COT) to continue to carry forward deferred
tax assets of A$624 million that are associated with prior period
losses. With the acquisitions completed by the Group there is a
high degree of complexity associated with the Allocable Cost
Amount (ACA) calculations associated with these acquisitions.
Furthermore, the Group is involved in a significant value
and quantity of related party transactions which must be in
compliance with the transfer pricing provisions of international
taxation laws and regulations.
Significant judgement is required to calculate taxation balances,
including assessing the recognition and measurement of taxation
balances where there is a range of possible outcomes due to
different interpretations of taxation law and regulations. Due to
the size of the deferred tax balances on a gross basis we consider
this to be a key audit matter.
Our audit procedures included, among others:
•
Engaging the use of our taxation experts to assist
with:
»
The ACA calculation
»
The tax calculation
»
Considering any uncertain taxation positions
»
Assessing transfer pricing arrangements
»
Evaluating the COT assessment
•
Assessing the Group’s taxation disclosures.
182