INFRASTRUCTURE
Yancoal exports 100% of its product through five
eastern Australian ports into the Asian market, with
current allocations sufficient to meet existing and
potential brownfield expansion needs. The Group
has ownership interests in three of these ports.
PORT WARATAH COAL
SERVICES (PWCS) 30.0%
Yancoal has take-or-pay contracts with PWCS
for the export of coal through the terminals
at Newcastle NSW, with a port allocation
of approximately 35.1Mt (100% basis).
NEWCASTLE COAL
INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP
(NCIG) 27%
Yancoal continues to be one of five company
shareholders involved in the NCIG export coal
terminal in Newcastle NSW. Yancoal has
an allocation of approximately 19.6Mt per annum
(100% basis).
WIGGINS ISLAND COAL EXPORT
TERMINAL (WICET) 9.4%
With a total capacity of 27.0Mt per annum, Yancoal
is one of five owners of WICET, located at Golding
Point in Queensland. Yancoal’s contracted capacity
is 1.5Mt per annum, allocated to the Yarrabee Mine.
1 All numbers are on an equity basis.
RAIL
Yancoal is supported by the following rail networks
to transport product from mine to port:
•	 The NSW Hunter Valley Coal Chain: supporting
the Moolarben, Mount Thorley Warkworth,
Hunter Valley Operations, Austar, Ashton,
Stratford Duralie, and Donaldson operations,
with coal transported to the Port of Newcastle;
•	 The QLD Blackwater System: supporting
the Yarrabee operation, transporting coal
to the Port of Gladstone; and
•	 The QLD Goonyella System: supporting
the Middlemount operation, with coal
transported to the Port of Hay Point and
Abbot Point Coal Terminal.
2018 TAKE-OR-PAY1
Yancoal’s unutilised take-or-pay exposure
increased from the year prior (2017: $60.7 million;
equity basis) to $84.9 million in rail and port
commitments in excess of shipped sales.
The increase of $24.2 million was attributable
to the take-or-pay exposure acquired from the
former Coal & Allied assets (full year $32.9 million)
and under-utilisation of WICET port capacity
($7.9 million). This was offset by a $16.6 million
reduction from increased utilisation by Moolarben
and trading with third parties.
Yancoal continues to implement strategic measures
to reduce take-or-pay exposure across the Group
by trading between sites and with other users.
ANNUAL REPORT 2018         29