NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      ANNUAL REPORT 2018      119
C2 MINING TENEMENTS
Accounting Policy
Mining tenements have a finite useful life and are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Mining
tenements are amortised from the date when commercial production commences, or the date of acquisition. Amortisation is calculated
over the life of the mine on a “units of production” method based on the Joint Ore Reserves Committee (“JORC”) estimated reserves.
Changes in the annual amortisation rate resulting from changes in the remaining estimated reserves are applied on a prospective basis
from the commencement of the next financial year. Every year the mining tenement’s carrying amount is compared to its recoverable
amount and assessed for impairment, or for possible reversals of prior year impairment.
See Note C3 for further details on the impairment of assets.
31 December
2018
$M
31 December
2017
$M
Opening net book amount
4,296
2,128
Acquisition through business combination
128
2,456
Transfers from exploration and evaluation
6
26
Impairment reversal
–
100
Amortisation
(188)
(103)
Transfer to assets classified as held for sale
(24)
(311)
Closing net book amount
4,218
4,296
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
Coal reserves and resources
The Group estimates its coal resources and reserves based on information compiled by Competent Persons as defined by the Australasian
Code for Reporting Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves (December 2012), which is prepared by the Joint Ore
Reserves Committee (“JORC”) of the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, Australian Institute of Geoscientists and Minerals
Council of Australia, known as the JORC 2012 Code, and Australian Securities Exchange (“ASX”) Listing Rules 2012.
Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves are based on geological information and technical data relating to the size, depth, quality of coal,
suitable production techniques and recovery rates. Such an analysis requires complex geological judgements to interpret the data.
The estimation of Recoverable Reserves is based on factors such as estimates of foreign exchange rates, coal price, future capital
requirements, rehabilitation obligations and production costs, along with geological assumptions and judgements made in estimating
the size and quality of the reserves. Management forms a view of forecast sales prices based on long-term forecast coal price data from
multiple external sources.
The external sources have determined their benchmark coal price forecasts having regard to the latest International Energy Agency (IEA)
base scenario and the Nationally Determined Contributions agreed under the Paris Agreement in 2015. This contemplates the global
seaborne demand for thermal coal will remain relatively consistent until 2040 whilst the global seaborne demand for metallurgical coal will
increase up to 2040.
A more rigorous international response to climate change under the Paris Agreement could negatively impact the Recoverable Reserves
by lowering the forecast sales prices.
Additionally as the economic assumptions used may change and as additional geological information is produced during the operations of
a mine, estimates of reserves may change. The amount of reserves that may actually be mined in the future and the Group’s current reserve
estimate may vary. Such changes may impact the Group’s reported financial position and results including:
––
the carrying value of the exploration and evaluation assets, mine properties, property, plant and equipment and goodwill may be affected
due to changes in estimated future cash flows;
––
depreciation and amortisation charges in the statement of profit and loss and other comprehensive income may change where such
charges are determined using the units of production method, or where the useful life of the related assets change; and
––
the carrying value of deferred income tax assets may change due to changes in the judgements regarding the existence of such assets
and in estimates of the likely recovery of such assets.