NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018
132      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
D2 INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES (CONTINUED)
(a) Secured bank loans (continued)
(i) Syndicated Facility (continued)
The Syndicated Facility includes the following minimum balance requirements to be satisfied daily and at each end of month:
(a)	 The Company is to maintain in the Lender Accounts an aggregate daily average balance of not less than AU$25 million, this is tested
at the end of each month; and
(b)	 The Company is to maintain in the Lender Accounts an aggregate end of month balance of not less than AU$50 million.
There was no breach of covenants at 31 December 2018.
(ii)	 Syndicated Term Loan
In 2018 a Syndicated Term Loan of US$300 million was taken out and all proceeds were used to partially repay the Syndicated Facility.
The Syndicated Term Loan is secured by the assets of the consolidated group of Yancoal Resources Ltd and Coal & Allied Industries Ltd with
carrying value of $9,486 million.
The Syndicated Term Loan includes the following financial covenants based on consolidated results of Yancoal Resources Ltd Group and
Coal & Allied Group to be tested half-yearly:
(a)	 The interest cover ratio is greater than 5.0 times;
(b)	 The finance debt to EBITDA ratio is less than 3.0 times; and
(c)	 The net tangible assets is greater AU$1,500 million.
There was no breach of covenants at 31 December 2018.
(b) Bank guarantee facilities
Yancoal is party to the following bank guarantee facilities which have been issued for operational purposes in favour of port, rail, government
departments and other operational functions:
Provider
US $M
AU $M
Utilised
AU $M
Security
Syndicate of seven Australian
and international banks*
–
1,000
808
Secured by the assets of the consolidated groups of Yancoal Resources
Ltd and Coal & Allied Industries Ltd with carrying value of $9,486 million.
Facility expires on 23 August 2021.
Bank of China*
50
71
67
Parent corporate guarantees from Yanzhou to Bank of China for the
full amount of the facility. Facility expires on 16 December 2019.
Total
50
1,071
875
*
This facility can be drawn in both A$ and US$.
The Syndicated Bank Guarantee Facility includes the following financial covenants based on the combined consolidated results of Yancoal
Resources Ltd and Coal & Allied to be tested half-yearly. As part of the acquisition of Coal & Allied the Syndicated Bank Guarantee Facility was
increased to AU$1 billion and the financial covenants were adjusted from 1 September 2017:
(a)	 The interest cover ratio is greater than 5.0 times;
(b)	 The finance debt to EBITDA ratio is less than 3.0 times; and
(c)	 The net tangible assets are greater than AU$1,500 million.
There was no breach of covenants at 31 December 2018.
The Bank of China bank guarantee facility includes the following financial covenants to be tested half-yearly:
(a)	 The interest cover ratio will not be less than 1.40;
(b)	 The gearing ratio of the Group will not exceed 0.75; and
(c)	 The consolidated net worth of the Group is not less than AU$3,000 million.
The calculation of the above covenants includes certain exclusions with regard to unrealised gains and losses including foreign exchange gains
and losses.
The Bank of China bank guarantee facility includes the following minimum balance requirements to be satisfied daily and at each end of month:
(a)	 The Company is to maintain in the Lender Accounts an aggregate daily average balance of not less than AU$25 million, this is tested at the
end of each month, and;
(b)	 The Company is to maintain in the Lender Accounts an aggregate end of month balance of not less than AU$50 million.
There was no breach of covenants at 31 December 2018.
D – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING