*Includes Warkworth and Mount Thorley Operations emissions under Rio
Tinto Coal Australia (RTCA) ownership before 1 September 2017
(tCO2-e: tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent).
EMISSIONS REPORTING
PERIOD
SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS
(MILLION tCO2-e)
SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS
(MILLION tCO2-e)
SCOPE 1 AND SCOPE 2
EMISSIONS (tCO2-e)
2016 to 2017
1.60
0.34
1.94
2017 to 2018
1.63
0.33
1.96
% Variance
1.8%
–3.8%
0.9%
SUMMARY GREENHOUSE EMISSIONS
ENVIRONMENT
Operating to stringent environmental management
conditions, including the on- and off-site
management and monitoring of potential dust
and noise impacts, Yancoal continues to work
with State and Federal Government departments
and the community to ensure full transparency
in its environmental reporting.
Yancoal’s Health, Safety and Environment
Committee sets the direction for the Company’s
continued commitment to operating its mines
to the highest environmental standards and
following legislative requirements.
Each Yancoal operation implements proactive
strategies to oversee its environmental
management activities to meet its obligations.
There are also rehabilitation and end-of-mine plans
to return mined areas to pastoral and woodland
areas suitable for future use.
Yancoal continues to apply robust water, dust and
noise management practices across all operations.
The methods used can respond quickly to changing
operating and weather conditions.
Total seeding and planting across all operations
in 2018 was 217 hectares. Total new disturbance
across all operations in 2018 was 242 hectares.
As of 31 December 2018, Yancoal has seeded
and planted 53% of disturbed areas across
all operations1.
GREENHOUSE GAS AND
ENERGY DATA REPORTING
REQUIREMENTS
As Australia’s largest pure-play thermal coal
producer, Yancoal acknowledges it has a role
to play in mitigating the emissions generated
by its operations and supporting investment into
low-emission technology to assist the reduction
of downstream emissions from the consumption
of coal products.
The Company also understands the growing
interest by stakeholders regarding the potential
risks and opportunities posed to our business and
the broader sector as a result of an anticipated
global shift towards a lower-carbon economy.
Recognising this, the Board continues to
consider the adoption of the Taskforce on
Climate‑related Financial Disclosures (“TCFD”)
Recommendations, established by the G20
Financial Stability Board, as the framework
to guide our climate-related disclosures.
National Greenhouse Energy Reporting (NGER)*
The considerations include the desire for greater
transparency in the way we identify and mitigate
potential risks posed by changes to our external
environment from policy, legal, market demand,
reputational and technological perspectives.
GOVERNANCE
The Board regularly considers how climate
change may drive changes to physical, regulatory,
commercial and operating environments to inform
the development of medium- to long-term goals
and strategies.
REPORTING ON EMISSIONS
Yancoal reports its operational direct (Scope 1)
and indirect (Scope 2) emissions on an annual basis
in line with the National Greenhouse and Energy
Reporting legislation. The Group has implemented
systems and processes for the collection and
calculation of the data required by the Federal
Clean Energy Regulator.
Overall, on an operational control basis, our total
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions for the period
ended 30 June 2018 totalled 1.96 million tCO2-e,
less than a 1% increase on the year prior. The
majority of Scope 1 emissions relate to fugitive
emissions associated with the underground and
open cut mining operations, while Scope 2
emissions stem from the consumption of electricity
purchased from the grid.
While we do not currently calculate Scope 3
emissions associated with the consumption
of our coal products, we actively support the
development of technologies aimed at reducing
the emissions intensity of these downstream
activities. This stance includes supporting the
construction or installation of high-efficiency,
low-emissions technologies in coal-fired power
stations and investment in carbon capture and
storage technology.
ANNUAL REPORT 2018         19