ADDITIONAL HKEX COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS      ANNUAL REPORT 2018      181
Group was approximately US$105.2 million, which was below the
annual cap.
10. Purchase of Coal from Anotero
As part of the Glencore Transaction, CNAO, a wholly owned
subsidiary of the Company, HVO Coal Sales Pty Ltd (the SalesCo)
and Anotero entered into a sales contract – Hunter Valley Operations
Joint Venture on 4 May 2018 (the “HVO Sales Agreement”). The
relevant mining and exploration licences of HVO are held directly
by CNAO and Anotero as tenants in common in proportion to their
respective participating interests in the HVO JV. Pursuant to the HVO
Sales Agreement, (i) each of CNAO and Anotero agrees to sell all
of its entitled portion of finished coal product in saleable form that
is produced by the tenements held by the HVO JV to the SalesCo
only and the SalesCo agrees to purchase each of CNAO’s and
Anotero’s entitled portion of coal product, (ii) the amount payable
to each of CNAO and Anotero by the SalesCo shall be the total
amount received by the SalesCo for that portion of product under
each sales contract entered into between the SalesCo and its
customers and (iii) payment by the SalesCo to CNAO and Anotero
shall be no later than three business days after receipt by the SalesCo
of payment from its customers. Anotero is a substantial shareholder
of subsidiaries of the Company under the HK Listing Rules. Anotero is
a connected person of the Company by virtue of being a substantial
shareholder of the Company’s subsidiary.
The HVO Sales Agreement shall commence on the date of the HVO
Sales Agreement and terminate upon the termination of the joint venture
agreement in relation to the HVO JV in accordance with its terms.
Notwithstanding that the term of the HVO Sales Agreement may
exceed three years, the Company has set the estimated maximum
annual transaction amounts for the transactions under the HVO
Sales Agreement for a term of three years and will re-comply with the
applicable requirements of the HK Listing Rules after the expiry of
the initial three years. The maximum annual transaction amounts to
be distributed by the SalesCo to Anotero for the three years ending
31 December 2018, 2019 and 2020 will not exceed US$750 million,
US$750 million and US$750 million, respectively. During the year
ended 31 December 2018, the transaction distributed by the SalesCo
to Anotero was approximately US$551 million, which was below the
annual cap.
11. Purchase of Coal from POSCO
The participants of the unincorporated joint venture in relation to
Mount Thorley (the “MT JV”) namely POSCO and Mount Thorley
Operations Pty Ltd (previously known as R. W. Miller & Co. Pty
Limited) (“MT Operations”), a wholly owned subsidiary of the
Company holding the relevant mining and exploration licences of
Mount Thorley on behalf of the MT JV, entered into a sales contract
with Miller Pohang Coal Co. Pty Limited (the “MT SalesCo”) on
10 November 1981 (the “MT Sales Agreement”), respectively.
MT SalesCo is a company jointly controlled by MT Operations and
POSCO with MT Operations and POSCO holding 80% and 20% of
its interest, respectively. Both the MT SalesCo and the MT JV are
subsidiaries of the Company under the HK Listing Rules. As POSCO
holds more than 10% of the interest in the MT SalesCo and has more
than 10% participating interest in the MT JV, POSCO is a connected
person of the Company by being a substantial shareholder of the
subsidiaries of the Company. Accordingly, the transaction between
the MT SalesCo and POSCO constitutes a continuing connected
transaction of the Company under the HK Listing Rules.
Pursuant to the MT Sales Agreement: (i) each of POSCO and
MT Operations agrees to sell all of its entitled portion of finished
coal product in saleable form that is produced by the tenements
held by the MT JV to the MT SalesCo only and the MT SalesCo
agrees to purchase each of POSCO’s and MT Operations’ entitled
portion of coal product, (ii) the amount payable to each of POSCO
and MT Operations shall be the total amount received by the MT
SalesCo for that portion of product under each sales contract entered
into between the MT SalesCo and its customers and (iii) payment
by the MT SalesCo to POSCO and MT Operations shall be no later
than seven days after receipt by the MT SalesCo of payment from
its customers.
The MT Sales Agreement was entered into on 10 November 1981
and will last during the economic life of the Mount Thorley coal mine.
Notwithstanding that the term of the MT Sales Agreement may
exceed three years, the Company has set the estimated maximum
annual transaction amounts for the transactions under the MT Sales
Agreement for a term of three years and will re-comply with the
applicable requirements of the HK Listing Rules after the expiry of
the initial three years. The maximum annual transaction amount to be
distributed by the MT SalesCo to POSCO for the three years ending
31 December 2018, 2019 and 2020 will not exceed US$90 million,
US$90 million and US$90 million, respectively. During the year ended
31 December 2018, the transaction amount distributed by the MT
SalesCo to POSCO was approximately US$89.5 million, which was
below the annual cap.
Review on continuing connected transactions
Pursuant to Rule 14A.55 of the HK Listing Rules, the Directors
(including Independent Non-Executive Directors) have reviewed
the above continuing connected transactions in the year ended
31 December 2018. The Independent Non-Executive Directors
hereby confirm that the above continuing transactions have been
entered into:
1.	 in the ordinary and usual course of business of the Group;
2.	 on normal commercial terms or better; and
3.	 in accordance with the relevant agreements governing them
on terms that are fair and reasonable and in the interests of
Shareholders as a whole.
In accordance with the requirement of Rule 14A.56 and 14A.71(6)(b)
of the HK Listing Rules, the Company has engaged the independent
auditor of the Company to report on the continuing connected
transactions of the Group.
Based on the results of procedures performed and in accordance with
the aforesaid HK Listing Rules, the independent auditor has provided
a letter to the Board confirming that nothing has come to its attention
that caused it to believe that the continuing connected transactions:
(i)	 have not been approved by the Board;
(ii)	 were not, in all material respects, in accordance with the pricing
policies of the Group;
(iii)	 were not entered into, in all material respects, in accordance with
the relevant agreements governing such transactions; and
(iv)	 have exceeded their respective annual caps for the financial
year ended 31 December 2018 set out in the prospectus of
the Company.
In accordance with paragraph 14A.57 of the Listing Rules, a copy of
the independent auditor’s letter has been provided by the Company
to the HK Stock Exchange.
The Company confirms that it has complied with the requirements
of Chapter 14A of the HK Listing Rules in relation to all connected
transactions and continuing connected transactions to which any
Group member was a party during the year ended 31 December