NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      ANNUAL REPORT 2018      149
(iii) Revenue and profit contribution
The acquired interest contributed revenue of $285 million and net profit of $137 million to the Group for the period from 1 March 2018 to
31 December 2018. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2018, consolidated revenue and net profit before tax for the period ended
31 December 2018 would have been $333 million and $160 million respectively. These amounts have been calculated using the Group’s
accounting policies.
(d) Update on acquisition of Coal & Allied Industries Ltd
On 1 September 2017, the Group acquired the shares in Coal & Allied from wholly owned subsidiaries of Rio Tinto. The total consideration
payable was $3,547 million. The accounting for the Coal & Allied acquisition was determined on a provisional basis at 31 December 2017.
During the current year, adjustments have been made to the provisional acquisition accounting of Coal & Allied. This resulted in an increase
in provisions of $8 million offset by increases in mining tenements of $1 million and intangible assets of $1 million together with the resulting
deferred tax impacts. Deferred tax assets increased by $2 million and deferred tax liabilities decreased by $4 million. The changes have resulted
from further analysis of agreements and the nature and status of assets that existed as at the acquisition date that, if known, would have
affected the measurement of the amounts recognised as at the date of acquisition.
The accounting for the acquisition is now final as at 31 December 2018.
E2 INTERESTS IN OTHER ENTITIES
Accounting Policies
(i) Associates
Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control or joint control, generally accompanying a
shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of
accounting, after initially being recognised at cost. The Group’s investments in associates include goodwill identified on acquisition.
The Group’s share of its associates’ post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in profit or loss, and its share of post-acquisition
other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income. The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted
against the carrying amount of the investment. Dividends receivable from associates are recognised as a reduction in the carrying amount
of the investment.
(ii) Joint arrangements
A joint arrangement is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties undertake economic activities under joint control. Joint
control exists only when the strategic, financial and operational policy decisions relating to the activities of the joint arrangement require the
unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
A joint arrangement is either a joint operation or a joint venture. The structure of each joint arrangement is analysed to determine whether
the joint arrangement is a joint operation or a joint venture. The classification of a joint arrangement is dependent on the rights and
obligations of the parties to the arrangement.
Joint operations
The Group recognises its proportional right to the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of joint operations and its share of any
jointly held or incurred assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. These have been incorporated in the financial statements under the
appropriate headings.
Joint ventures
A joint venture is structured through a separate vehicle and the parties have rights to the net assets of the arrangement. Joint ventures
are accounted for using the equity method where the assets and liabilities will be aggregated into one line item on the face of the
consolidated balance sheet, after adjusting for the share of profit or loss after tax, which is shown as a separate line item on the face of
the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income, after adjusting for amounts recognised directly in equity.
Investments in associates and joint ventures
When the Group’s share of losses in a joint venture or associate equals or exceeds its interest in the joint venture or associate (which
includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Group’s net investment in the joint venture), the Group does not
recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture or associate.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures or associates are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest
in the joint ventures or associates. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the
asset transferred. Accounting policies of the joint ventures or associates have been changed where necessary, to ensure consistency with
the policies adopted by the Group.
Critical accounting judgements
There is significant judgement in assessing whether the Group controls Watagan; even though it holds 100% of the nominal share capital.
An assessment has been made that in accordance with the accounting standards the Group does not control Watagan as it is not able to
direct the relevant activities of Watagan and accounts for its interest in Watagan as an associate.