CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
88      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
The key values underpinning the Code of Conduct are:
––
our actions must be governed by the highest standards of integrity
and fairness;
––
our decisions must be made in accordance with the letter and
spirit of applicable law; and
––
our business must be conducted honestly and ethically, with
our best skills and judgement, and for the benefit of customers,
employees, shareholder and the Company alike.
An updated Code of Conduct was approved by the Board in
October 2018 and is being implemented within the business.
The Code of Conduct is available in the Corporate Governance
section of the Company’s website.
Reporting concerns and whistleblower protection
The Company’s Speak-Up Yancoal Ethics policy encourages
employees, Directors, contractors and consultants to raise serious
concerns within the Company and report any issues if they genuinely
believe a person has, or persons have, breached Yancoal’s Code of
Conduct, policies or the law. The policy also protects individuals who
in good faith report misconduct which they reasonably believe to be
corrupt, illegal or unethical on a confidential basis, without fear of
reprisal, dismissal or discriminatory treatment; and assists in ensuring
that matters of misconduct and/or unethical behaviour are identified
and dealt with appropriately.
Individuals can report their concerns confidentially online, via
confidential email to an external facilitator or by telephoning a
confidential Speak Up Line.
All disclosures made under this policy will be treated seriously and
be the subject of a thorough investigation with the objective of
locating evidence that either substantiates or refutes the misconduct
disclosed by an employee. Such investigations will be facilitated
independently from the business unit concerned, the employee who
made the disclosure or any person being the subject of the reportable
conduct. The Company will determine, based on the seriousness of
the disclosure, whether the investigation will be conducted internally
by a senior member of management or the external facilitator.
Principle 4: Safeguard integrity in corporate reporting
Audit and Risk Management Committee
The Board is responsible for preparing the financial statements and
accounts of the Company. The Board has established an Audit and
Risk Management Committee, which plays a key role in helping the
Board to oversee financial reporting, internal control structure, risk
management systems and internal and external audit functions.
The committee also enables the Board to maintain a transparent
relationship with the Company’s internal and external auditors.
The committee has the necessary power and resources to meet
its responsibilities under its charter, including rights of access
to management and auditors (internal and external) and to seek
explanations and additional information. The committee meets at
least four times per year, or as frequently as required. The Charter
of the Audit and Risk Management Committee (which was revised
in October 2018 to capture the relevant provisions of the HK
Listing Rules) provides clear terms of reference and can be found
in the Corporate Governance section of the Company’s website.
The purpose of the Audit and Risk Management Committee is
outlined under the Board committees section above.
In accordance with its Charter, the Audit and Risk Management
Committee has at least three members. The current members of this
committee are Gregory Fletcher (Chair of the committee), Qingchun
Zhao, David Moult (appointed 8 June 2018) and Helen Gillies
(appointed 8 June 2018). Former Committee member Geoffrey Raby
resigned on 8 June 2018.
The committee consists only of Non-Executive Directors
with a majority being independent. Consistent with the ASX
Recommendations, the Chair of the committee is an independent
Non-Executive Director and is not the Chairman of the Board. The
qualifications, skills and experience of each member are disclosed
in the Information on Directors in the Directors’ Report, on page 58.
The Company has also employed a full-time GM of Risk and
Assurance. His role is described further under Principle 7.
CEO and CFO certifications on financial reports
The CEO and CFO have declared in writing to the Board that in
respect of the half year ended 30 June 2018 and the full year
ended 31 December 2018, in their opinion, the financial records
of the Company have been properly maintained and the financial
statements comply with the appropriate accounting standards and
give a true and fair view of the financial position and performance of
the Company, and that their opinion has been formed on the basis
of a sound system of risk management and internal control which
is operating effectively.
External Auditor
The Company’s external auditor is ShineWing Australia. Consistent
with the requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth), ShineWing
Australia has a policy of partner rotation every five years. The
appointment, removal and remuneration (not including amounts paid
for special or additional services provided by the auditor) of the auditor
require shareholder approval.
The external auditor receives all papers and minutes of the Audit
and Risk Management Committee. The external auditor also attends
the Company’s Annual General Meeting to answer questions from
shareholders relevant to the Company’s audit.
The statement of the external auditor, ShineWing Australia, about
reporting responsibilities on the financial statements of the Group,
is set out under the heading “Independent Auditor’s Report to the
Members of Yancoal Australia Ltd” in this annual report.
The Directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge, information
and belief, having made all reasonable enquiries, they are not aware
of any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that may
cast significant doubt upon the Company’s ability to continue as a
going concern.
An analysis of remuneration (including details of the amounts
payable) to the auditor for audit and non-audit services provided
during the financial year ended 31 December 2018 is set out in
the Directors’ Report on pages 64 to 77.
Principle 5: Make timely and balanced disclosure
The Company recognises the importance of timely and adequate
disclosure to the market, and is committed to making timely
and balanced disclosure of all material matters and to effective
communication with its shareholders and investors so as to give
them ready access to balanced and understandable information.
The Company also works together with its major shareholder,
Yanzhou, to ensure that Yanzhou can comply with its disclosure
obligations in relation to Company information, and vice versa,
Yanzhou seeks to ensure that the Company can comply with its
disclosure obligations in relation to Yanzhou’s information.
The Board has put in place a Disclosure Policy to encapsulate the
disclosure obligations under the Corporations Act 2001 and the ASX
Listing Rules and to set out procedures for managing compliance
with those obligations. This policy was revised in October 2018 to