NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018
168      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
F7 NEW AND AMENDED STANDARDS ADOPTED BY THE GROUP (CONTINUED)
(i)	 New and amended standards adopted by the Group (continued)
AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers
The updated accounting policies for the new accounting standard AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers have been disclosed
in Note B2(a) and the presentation has been updated to reflect the disclosure requirements of the new standard.
There is one additional category of revenue being recognised for freight services; this will change the revenue reported from coal sales in the
31 December 2017 period from $2,635 million to $2,623 million with the corresponding difference of $12 million being recognised as freight
services in other revenue. There is no adjustment required to opening retained earnings as the timing or value of revenue recognised on
contracts with customers has not changed.
Other amending accounting standards and interpretations
Other relevant accounting standards and amendments and interpretations effective for the current reporting period include:
––
AASB 2016-5 Amendments to Australian Accounting Standards – Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions; and
––
AASB Interpretation 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration.
These standards have introduced new disclosures for the Annual Financial Report but did not affect the Group’s accounting policies or any of the
amounts recognised in the financial statements.
F8 NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS
Certain new accounting standards and interpretations have been published that are not mandatory for 31 December 2018 reporting periods and
have not been early adopted by the Group. The Group’s assessment of the impact of these new standards and interpretations is set out below.
Reference
and Title
Details of New Standard/Amendment/Interpretation
Application date
for the Group
AASB 16
Leases
The Group is required to adopt AASB 16 Leases from 1 January 2019. The Group has assessed the estimated
impact that initial application of AASB 16 will have on its consolidated financial statements, as described below.
The actual impacts of adopting the standard on 1 January 2019 may change because:
a)	 the Group has not finalised the testing and assessment of controls over its new IT systems; and
b)	 the new accounting policies are subject to change until the Group presents its first financial statements that
include the date of initial application.
AASB 16 introduces a single, on-balance sheet lease accounting model for lessees. A lessee recognises a
right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset and a lease liability representing its obligation
to make lease payments. There are recognition exemptions for short-term leases and leases of low-value items.
Lessor accounting remains similar to the current standard – i.e. lessors continue to classify leases as finance or
operating leases.
AASB 16 replaces existing leases guidance, including AASB 117 Leases, IFRIC 4 Determining whether an
Arrangement contains a Lease, SIC-15 Operating Leases – Incentives and SIC-27 Evaluating the Substance
of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease.
The Group plans to apply AASB 16 initially on 1 January 2019, using the modified retrospective approach.
The Group plans to apply the practical expedient to grandfather the definition of a lease on transition. This
means that it will apply AASB 16 to all contracts entered into before 1 January 2019 and identified as leases
in accordance with AASB 117 and IFRIC 4.
Impact:
Leases in which the Group is a lessee
The Group will recognise new assets and liabilities for its operating leases. The nature of expenses related to
those leases will now change because the Group will recognise a depreciation charge for right-of-use assets
and interest expense on lease liabilities.
Previously, the Group recognised operating lease expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease,
and recognised assets and liabilities only to the extent that there was a timing difference between actual lease
payments and the expense recognised.
No significant impact is expected for the Group’s finance leases.
Based on the information currently available, the Group estimates that it will recognise additional lease liabilities
of $111 million and right-of-use assets of $92 million as at 1 January 2019. The Group does not expect
the adoption of AASB 16 to impact its ability to comply with the revised maximum leverage threshold loan
covenants described in Note D2.
Although the Directors anticipate that the adoption of AASB 16 will impact the Group’s financial statements,
it is impracticable at this stage to provide a reasonable estimate of such impact.
Leases in which the Group is lessor
The Group will reassess the classification of sub-leases in which the Group is a lessor. Based on the information
currently available, the Group expects that it will reclassify sub-leases as finance leases, resulting in recognition
of a finance lease receivable of $19 million as at 1 January 2019.
1 January 2019
F – OTHER INFORMATION