1 Attributable includes: 81% Moolarben up to and including 30
November 2018 and 85% thereafter; Hunter Valley Operations
51% from 1 September 2017; Mount Thorley Warkworth 64.1%
from 1 September 2017 up to and including 28 February 2018 and
82.9% thereafter; Stratford Duralie (100%); and Yarrabee (100%).
2 Watagan is wholly owned by Yancoal Australia Ltd, controlled by
a consortium of financiers consisting of Industrial Bank Co. Ltd,
BOCI Financial Products Limited (BOCIF) and United NSW Energy
Limited. Effective 31 March 2016, Yancoal ceased to control
Watagan. As announced 4 January 2019, BOCIF gave notice to
Yankuang Group Company Limited (“Yankuang”) and Watagan that
it has exercised its right to put its Watagan Bonds (the “Put
Bonds”) to Yankuang.
As a consequence, Yankuang will become the Bondholder of the
Put Bonds following completion of the purchase of those bonds
by Yankuang consequent to the exercise of the put option
(which should occur on or around 1 April 2019).
3 Yanzhou Coal Mining Company is a China-based integrated
mining company with interests in coal, coal chemicals, power
generation and potash resources. Its shares are listed on the
Hong Kong, New York and Shanghai stock exchanges.
The State owned Yankuang Group Company Limited has
a 53% direct shareholding in Yanzhou.
Dual primary listed on the Australian Securities
Exchange and The Stock Exchange of Hong
Kong Ltd (HKEx), Yancoal Australia Ltd (Yancoal)
operates five coal mine complexes and manages
five others across Australia.
As a leading low-cost coal producer in the
global seaborne market, Yancoal’s coal mining
operations produce a mix of premium thermal,
semi-soft coking and PCI coals, together with
mid- to high‑ash thermal coals.
Yancoal’s mining interests in New South Wales
include the open cut and underground mines
of the Moolarben coal complex (85% ownership1);
the integrated joint venture operations of the
Mount Thorley and Warkworth open cut mines
(82.9% ownership); the open cut Hunter Valley
Operations joint venture with Glencore Coal
(51% ownership) and the integrated operations
of the Stratford and Duralie open cut mines
100% ownership).
Yancoal’s mining interests in Queensland include
the Yarrabee open cut mine (100% ownership);
and a near 50% equity interest in Middlemount
Coal Pty Ltd (“Middlemount”) open cut mine,
an incorporated joint venture with Peabody Energy.
Yancoal manages the underground Ashton
(100% ownership), Austar (100% ownership)
and Donaldson (100% ownership) mines in
New South Wales on behalf of Yancoal’s
unconsolidated, wholly owned subsidiary, the
Watagan Mining Company Pty Ltd (“Watagan”)2.
Yancoal also manages the open cut Cameby
Downs mine in Queensland and open cut
Premier coal mine in Western Australia on
behalf of its majority shareholder Yanzhou
Coal Mining Company Limited (“Yanzhou”)3.
Yancoal also has shareholding interests
in three major Australian coal export terminals,
with sufficient allocation to meet existing
and potential expansion needs.
As Australia’s largest pure-play
coal producer, Yancoal operates
a diversified portfolio of world class
assets consisting of both large-scale
open cut and underground mines.
ANNUAL REPORT 2018         1