MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (CONTINUED)
50      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
MATERIAL ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS (CONTINUED)
HVO Disposal
On 4 May 2018, the Group completed the disposal of a 16.6%
interest in the unincorporated HVO joint venture to Glencore, reducing
the Group’s interest in HVO from 67.6% to 51% and resulting in
a 51%:49% unincorporated joint venture between Yancoal and
Glencore. Net cash consideration received during the year was
$524 million with future payments receivable regarding 28% of
future non-contingent royalty payments and 49% of any contingent
coal price-linked royalty payments associated with HVO, which are
payable by the Group to Rio Tinto pursuant to the terms of the C&A
Acquisition agreements.
The Group classified the 16.6% interest in HVO to be sold to Glencore
as assets held for sale as at 31 December 2017, based on the
determination that the disposal was likely to be completed. Following
completion, the Group has continued to account for the financial
results of the HVO mine under the proportional consolidation method
of accounting.
Moolarben Acquisition
On 30 November 2018, the Group completed the acquisition of a
further 4% interest in the Moolarben unincorporated joint venture from
Kores Australia Moolarben Coal Pty Limited (Moolarben Acquisition).
During the year net cash of $19 million was paid with a further
$42 million payable in two installments in 2019. The Moolarben
Acquisition increased the Group’s interest in the unincorporated
Moolarben joint venture to 85%. The Group will continue to account
for the financial results of the Moolarben mine under the proportional
consolidation method of accounting.
INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING
The shares of the Company (New Shares) became listed on the
Main Board of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Ltd (HKEx) on
6 December 2018 representing a key milestone in the development
of the Group. In connection with the Company’s initial public
offering (the Global Offering) 59,441,900 New Shares were issued.
On 28 December 2018, a further 563,881 New Shares were issued
under the Retail Tranche of the Australian Entitlement Offer and on
3 January 2019 a further 4,361,900 New Shares were issued under
the partial exercise of the Overallotment Option, all in connection
with the Global Offering for HK$23.48 per New Share (approximately
A$4.09). The total amount raised was A$268 million and A$37 million
of issue costs were incurred of which A$8 million was capitalised.
EMPLOYEES
As at 31 December 2018, the Group had 3,060 employees (including
casual labour who are full-time equivalents), all located in Australia,
in addition to other contractors and service providers who support
the Group’s operations. For the year ended 31 December 2018, the
total employee costs (including the directors’ emoluments) amounted
to $518 million (2017: $302 million).
Remuneration packages and benefits are determined in accordance
with market term, and industry practice as well as the nature of duties,
performance, qualifications and experience of employees and are
reviewed an on annual basis. Remuneration packages include base
wages or salaries, short-term site production bonuses, short-term
and long-term incentives, non-monetary benefits, superannuation and
long service leave contributions and insurance.
The Group’s remuneration policies ensure remuneration is equitable,
aligns with the long-term interests of the Group and Shareholders,
complies with the diversity policy, provides market competitive
remuneration to attract and retain skilled and motivated employees
and structures incentives to link rewards with performance.
Details of the Group’s executive short- and long-term incentive plans
are included in the Remuneration Report in this report.
The Company believes that capable and competent employees
contribute to the success of the Group. The Group invests in
competence development and assurance programs to ensure
statutory compliance and zero harm to its employees. The Group also
contributes to the ongoing professional development of its employees.
This investment contributes to a pipeline of employees who are ready
to transition into new roles as well as creating a value proposition for
new employees looking to join the Group.
EVENTS OCCURRING AFTER THE REPORTING DATE
On 4 January 2019 BOCI Financial Products Limited notified Watagan
and Yankuang Group Co., Ltd (Yankuang) that it was exercising its put
option over US$200 million of bonds. As a consequence, Yankuang
will become the bondholder of the put bonds following completion
of the purchase of those bonds by Yankuang expected to occur
on or around 1 April 2019. No security will be given by Watagan in
favour of Yankuang. As the put bonds represent less than 50.1% of
the face value of the bonds, and the put option was not exercised
by the instructing bondholder, the put option is not deemed to have
been exercised as to all the bonds nor has control of Watagan
been regained by the Group such that Watagan continues to
be deconsolidated.
On 25 February 2019, Yancoal announced a final dividend for the
financial year ended 31 December 2018 of A$377 million (A$0.2855
per share to be comprised of an ordinary dividend of A$0.1596 and
a special dividend of $0.1259), with a record date of 11 March 2019.
The final dividend is expected to be distributed on 30 April 2019.
As announced on 25 February 2019, Yancoal will pre-pay a
further US$500 million in loans, reducing its total debt liabilities
by US$1.4 billion since September 2017. The pre-payment
consists of US$250 million in pre-paid loans from Bank of China
and China Construction Bank, and US$250 million in pre-paid
Yanzhou‑related loans.
For a full description of the matters and circumstances that have
occurred subsequent to the end of the financial period please see
page 58 in the Directors’ Report.
FINANCIAL AND OTHER RISK MANAGEMENT
The Group is exposed to financial risks arising from its operations
and the use of financial instruments. The key financial risks include
currency risk, price risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity
risk. The Board reviews and agrees policies and procedures for
management of these risks.
Currency Risk
The Group operates entirely in Australia and its costs are primarily
denominated in its functional currency, the Australian dollar. Export
coal sales are denominated in US dollars and a strengthening of
the Australian dollar against the US dollar has an adverse impact
on earnings and cash flow settlement. Liabilities for some plant and
equipment purchases and loans are denominated in currencies other
than the Australian dollar and a weakening of the Australian dollar
against other currencies has an adverse impact on earnings and cash
flow settlement.
See Note D9(a)(i) to the financial statements in this report for further
details on foreign currency exposure and a sensitivity analysis of the
impact of hypothetical increases and decreases in the Australian dollar
against relevant foreign currencies.