CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT    ANNUAL REPORT 2018      89
capture the relevant disclosure obligations under the HK Listing Rules.
These procedures provide a framework for managing the disclosure
of material matters to the market to ensure accountability at Board
and senior Executive level. As part of this framework, a standing
agenda item at all the Company’s Board and Executive Committee
meetings requires the Directors and senior Executives to consider
whether any matters at the meeting should be disclosed to the
market. The Disclosure Policy can be found within the Corporate
Governance section of the Company’s website.
A Disclosure Committee has been established to assist the Company
to meet its disclosure obligations. The Committee plays a key role
in reviewing and determining whether information is likely to have a
material effect on the price or value of the Company’s securities such
that it requires disclosure to the market. The Disclosure Committee
members comprise the CEC, CEO, CFO, Company Secretary,
Investor Relations General Manager and Group Counsel.
Any information disclosed to the market through an announcement
to the ASX is also published on the Investor section of the
Company’s website.
Principle 6: Respect the rights of shareholders
Communications with shareholders
The Company has an investor relations program that is aimed at
facilitating two-way communications with investors. The Company’s
policy is to promote effective communication with shareholders
and other investors so that they understand how to assess relevant
information about the Company and its corporate direction. The
Company aims to keep shareholders, potential investors and other
stakeholders informed of all major developments affecting the state
of affairs of the Company. The Company communicates information
regularly to shareholders, potential investors and other stakeholders by:
––
posting announcements on the ASX and HKEx platforms in
accordance with its continuous disclosure obligations and also
making these announcements available on the Company’s website;
––
keeping its website up to date on important information about the
Company, including its Constitution, Board and Board Committee
Charters, core corporate governance policies and financial
information about the Company; and
––
publishing investor presentations made to analysts and making
media briefings available within the Investor section of the
Company’s website.
The Board considers one of its key responsibilities to be
communication with shareholders and, accordingly, the Company
encourages shareholders to attend and participate in all general
meetings including annual general meetings.
Shareholders are entitled to ask questions about the management
of the Company and of the auditor as to its conduct of the audit and
preparation of its reports. Any shareholders who cannot attend any
general meetings can also participate via lodgement of their proxies.
In addition, shareholders have the option of receiving communications
from and sending communications to the Company and the Company’s
principle and branch share registries, Computershare Investor
Services, electronically.
The Company’s Shareholder Communication Policy, which was
reviewed and approved by the Board in October 2018 to capture the
relevant requirements of the HK Listing Rules, can be found within the
Corporate Governance section of the Company’s website.
Paragraph 44 of the HK Joint Policy Statement requires that members
holding a minority stake in an overseas company must be allowed to
convene an extraordinary general meeting and add resolutions to a
meeting agenda. The minimum level of members’ support required to
convene a meeting must be no higher than 10%.
Under section 249D of the Australian Corporations Act, Shareholders
with at least 5% of the votes that may be cast at a general meeting
may request the Directors to call a general meeting or may convene
a general meeting themselves at their own expense under section
249F of the Australian Corporations Act. Any such request must be in
writing, must state any resolution to be proposed at the meeting, must
be signed by the shareholder making the request and must be given
to the Company.
Under section 249N of the Australian Corporations Act, Shareholders
representing at least 5% of the total votes that may be cast on the
resolution or at least 100 Shareholders who are entitled to vote at a
general meeting may give the Company notice requiring resolutions to
be put before a general meeting. The notice must be in writing, must
set out the wording of the proposed resolution and must be signed by
the shareholders proposing to move the resolution.
Apart from the general meetings, the Company’s website is
an effective means of communication with Shareholders. Any
Shareholders who have questions or comments on what the
Company is doing are most welcome to contact the Company at any
time through the website. Shareholders may raise enquiries to the
Board by contacting the Group’s Investor Relations team, including
at shareholder@yancoal.com.au. Upon receipt of the enquiries, the
Investor Relations team will forward the Shareholders’ enquiries
and concerns to the Board, Board committees or the management
as appropriate.
Amendments to the Company’s Constitution
At a general meeting of Shareholders held on 26 September 2018,
Shareholder approval to amend the Constitution was sought and
obtained. The Constitution was amended by:
a)	 Amending the definition of “Exchange” by replacing the word “or”
with the word “and” in the first line, so the definition reads:
“ASX Limited and such other body corporate that is declared by
the Directors to be the Company’s primary stock exchange for the
purposes of this definition.”
b)	 Inserting a new rule 7.9(u) as follows:
“For the purposes of this rule 7.9, a recognised clearing house
(within the meaning of the Securities and Futures Ordinance
(Chapter 571 of the laws of Hong Kong) or its nominee(s) may
appoint or authorise any number of proxy(ies), attorney(s) or
Representative(s) to cast votes attaching to voting shares that
it holds in the Company, provided that if two or more proxies,
attorneys or Representatives are appointed or authorised to vote
at the same general meeting, the proxy form or authorisation must
specify the number and class of voting shares in respect of which
each proxy, attorney or Representative is appointed or authorised
to vote. Each person so authorised under the provisions of this
constitution shall be deemed to have been duly authorised without
further evidence of the facts and be entitled to exercise the same
power on behalf of the recognised clearing house as that clearing
house or its nominee(s) could exercise as if it were an individual
shareholder of the Company.”
c)	 Inserting a new rule 11.2 as follows:
“Subject to applicable laws, regulations and the Listing Rules
and notwithstanding any other rules in this Constitution, the
Company or the Directors may fix any date as the record date for:
(a)	 determining the members entitled to receive any dividend,
distribution, allotment or issue;