RECENT EXAMPLES OF
YANCOAL-SUPPORTED
COMMUNITY INITIATIVES:
•	 Yancoal committed $600,000 over
three years to support the Queensland
University of Technology’s Cancer and Ageing
Research Program (CARP). This funding enabled
the employment of two full-time cancer
researchers within the CARP team to advance
their research and help facilitate cancer clinical
trials, which will benefit all Australians.
•	 Yancoal’s funding enabled over 1,000
“future scientists” to have the opportunity
to experience SMART Science Shows at their
schools and learn about exciting possible
future career choices in Science, Technology,
Engineering and Mathematics (STEM).
•	 Yancoal completed its second year
of a three-year partnership with the Clontarf
Foundation, providing $100,000 per year
to support Indigenous youth education
services throughout regional New South Wales
and Western Australia.
•	 The Mount Thorley Warkworth operation
helped rescued wildlife in the Upper Hunter
Valley by donating funds to Wildlife Aid for
food and animal rehabilitation.
•	 The Ungooroo Aboriginal Corporation
provides culturally appropriate and holistic
GP, Medical, Allied Health and Mental Health
Services as well as other community services
directly to the Aboriginal community. Mount
Thorley Warkworth (MTW) donated funding
to help support Ungooroo’s Mental Health
and Psychology Services programme.
•	 Yancoal partnered with the Rockhampton
Leagues Club CQ Capras to help support
coaching and development opportunities
for over 8,000 Central Queensland Rugby
League players.
YANCOAL COMMUNITY
SUPPORT PROGRAM
As Australia’s largest pure-play coal producer,
Yancoal understands the value of making
a financial contribution to support the future
growth and sustainability of local and
regional communities.
Going beyond its established role as a key
employer, Yancoal’s Community Support
Program is specifically designed to invest
in projects, programs and initiatives capable
of making a difference to the lives of others,
regardless of whether the recipients have a
direct relationship to individual operations.
Each year Yancoal allocates funds at both
a site and corporate level to financially support
community groups and programs operating
across the areas of:
•	 Health;
•	 Social and Community;
•	 Environment; and
•	 Education and Training.
In 2018, the Yancoal Community Support Program
invested more than $800,000 into local initiatives
across Australia.
Community Support Program funding
has enabled the development and implementation
of educational and training projects; and supported
critical research into the detection and prevention
of cervical cancer; the rescue and rehabilitation
of protected local wildlife; the sponsorship
of key community events, groups and clubs;
the refurbishment of community facilities;
and helped support disadvantaged community
support groups who may otherwise struggle
to achieve their funding targets.
Yancoal is proud to be investing into local
and regional Australia, helping build stronger
communities across the country.
As the Company continues to grow,
it also maintains its responsibility of working
co-operatively with its community stakeholders,
relying upon community consultative committees;
local newsletters, local media, community days
and site-specific websites to help ensure they
are actively engaged and informed of matters
related to nearby operations.
ANNUAL REPORT 2018         21