ADDITIONAL HKEX COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS      ANNUAL REPORT 2018      179
provision of an existing service by notifying the parties in writing.
Following receipt of the notice, representatives of each party must
promptly meet to discuss in good faith the proposed new services
or modified services.
(II) Services Fees
The services fees for provision of the Services are charged on the
basis of cost plus a 5% margin, except for any third party charges
attributable to the provision of the relevant services which are
charged at cost. The cost base upon which 5% margin is applied
is determined on the basis of management’s reasonable estimate
of such costs at the commencement of each calendar year having
regard to certain principles, including (i) in respect of coal mining
operations, the total budgeted corporate administration costs of the
Company and the budgeted proportion of overall product tonnes
of the relevant mining operation, (ii) in respect of non-coal mining
businesses, the estimated management hours and the hourly rate
for such work and (iii) in respect of disbursement, full recovery of
any hard disbursements incurred by the Company.
At the end of each financial year (or such other times as the parties
may agree), the parties will undertake a reconciliation of the fees
charged during that financial year against the actual cost and
services provided. The Company will refund the excess charges or
the Recipients will pay the shortfall charges to the Company, in each
case, within 14 days of determination of the fee adjustment required.
(III) Payment of the Services Fees
The Company will invoice the Recipients quarterly in arrears for
services provided and the Recipients must pay the amount due to the
Company within 30 days after the receipt of the invoice.
Notwithstanding that the term of the Management and Transitional
Services Agreement may exceed three years, the Company has set
the annual caps for the transactions under the Management and
Transitional Services Agreement for a term of three years and will re-
comply with the applicable requirements of the HK Listing Rules after
the expiry of the initial three years. The maximum annual transaction
amount to be charged by the Group from the Recipients for the three
years ending 31 December 2018, 2019 and 2020 will not exceed
A$15 million, A$15 million and A$15 million, respectively. During the
year ended 31 December 2018, the transaction amount charged by
the Group was approximately A$7.9 million, which was below the
annual cap.
4. Loan Facility Provided by the Company
Premier Coal Holdings Pty Ltd, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary
of Yanzhou (“Premier Coal”) (as the borrower), entered into a loan
agreement with the Company (as lender) on 15 June 2016 in relation
to an A$50 million uncommitted revolving loan with a fixed interest
rate of 7% per annum (the “Premier Coal Loan Agreement”).
Pursuant to the Premier Coal Loan Agreement, the Company
may terminate or cancel the facility at any time and draws already
advanced to Premier Coal prior to the termination or cancellation are
required to be repaid immediately. The termination date will be the
date 12 months after the date of the Premier Coal Loan Agreement,
subject to automatic extension on a rolling 12-months basis, or any
earlier date on which the facility is terminated or cancelled in full or
on which all the money owing becomes due and payable.
The maximum daily drawn-down principal of the loan under the
Premier Coal Loan Agreement (including the interest accrued thereon)
for the three years ending 31 December 2018, 2019 and 2020 will not
exceed A$53.5 million, A$53.5 million and A$53.5 million, respectively.
The annual caps represent the facility limit under the Premier Coal
Loan Agreement and the maximum interest to be received. As at 31
December 2018, no amount remained drawn down under the Premier
Coal Loan Agreement.
5. Bank Guarantees Provided in favour of Yanzhou’s Subsidiaries
Yancoal Resources Limited (“Yancoal Resources”), a wholly
owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into a syndicated facility
agreement (as most recently amended on 31 August 2017) (the
“Local Banks Secured Syndicated Facility Agreement”) with
financiers who are independent third party commercial banks, on
11 October 2005, pursuant to which the financiers have agreed
to grant to the borrowers, being Yancoal Resources and any new
borrowers as agreed by the financiers, a dollar contingent liability
facility (which may also be drawn in US$), under which the financiers
will issue credit support documents, including bank guarantee and
letter of credit, in the name of the borrowers. Subject to amendment
and restatement from time to time, the Local Banks Secured
Syndicated Facility Agreement is for a term of three years.
The Company manages certain mines on behalf of Yanzhou. In the
ordinary and usual course of business, the subsidiaries of Yanzhou
holding the managed mines may require credit support documents
issued by commercial banks for their respective business operations.
Given the relevant commercial banks can issue credit support
documents pursuant to existing facility agreements generally within
five business days after receiving a request, which is a much shorter
period of time and simpler process as compared to those required by
other commercial banks to issue credit support documents without an
existing facility agreement, and the relationship between the Company
and the managed mines, as an integral part of the management services
rendered by the Company in support of the operation of the managed
mines, the subsidiaries of Yanzhou holding the managed mines will use
the overall bank guarantee facilities, including the Syndicated Facility
and the facility under the Local Banks Secured Syndicated Facility
Agreement, and pay the Company bank guarantee fees, which are
equal to the fees to be paid by the Company to the commercial banks.
The aggregate maximum daily outstanding principal and the bank
guarantee fees to be received under the credit support documents
issued by commercial banks in favour of the subsidiaries of Yanzhou
(excluding the Group) for the three years ending 31 December 2018,
2019 and 2020 will not exceed A$123.4 million, A$128.6 million and
A$133.7 million, respectively. During the year ended 31 December
2018, the aggregate maximum daily outstanding principal and the
bank guarantee fees was approximately A$71.7 million, which was
below the annual cap.
6. Purchase of Coal by Glencore
From time to time, Glencore Coal Pty Ltd (“Glencore”) and/or
its associates may purchase coal from the Group for on-sale to
end customers, in order to maintain customer relationships or to
meet specific customer requirements. The Company entered into
a framework coal sales agreement with Glencore (the “Glencore
Framework Coal Sales Agreement”) on 29 June 2018 to govern
all existing and future sales of coal by the Group to Glencore and/or
its subsidiaries and/or related entities. The Glencore Framework Coal
Sales Agreement provides that all transactions in relation to the sale
of coal by the Group to Glencore and/or its subsidiaries and/or related
entities must be (i) in the ordinary and usual course of business of the
Group, (ii) on an arm’s length basis, (iii) on normal commercial terms
with the sale price being determined with reference to the prevailing
market price for the relevant type of coal and (iv) in compliance with,
amongst other things, the HK Listing Rules and applicable laws.
The Company will take into account relevant industry benchmarks
and indices when determining the market price. Glencore wholly
owns Anotero Pty Ltd (Anotero). Anotero is a substantial shareholder
of subsidiaries of the Company under the HK Listing Rules. Glencore
is a connected person of the Company by virtue of being a substantial
shareholder of the Company’s subsidiary (through Anotero).