CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
82      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
Objective
Performance
1.
To increase employee awareness and
understanding of the importance of diversity
by implementing training on the Company’s
Diversity Policy and Workplace Behaviour
and Anti-Discrimination Policy.
The Yancoal Code of Conduct was reviewed and a new version was approved in May 2018.
Employees across the Company have access to the current version of the Yancoal Code of
Conduct via the Company intranet and are reminded of this via inductions, crew talks and
as relevant issues arise.
2.
To target a diverse group of candidates with
recruitment and selection procedures that
are merit-based and non‑discriminatory.
Across the Yancoal group, merit-based, non-discriminatory practices are adhered to.
3.
Continue to ensure our managers are adept
recruiters, retainers and motivators of our
diverse workplace.
A human resources representative endeavours to sit with managers during interviews to
coach and mentor on targeted selection techniques and merit-based selection, as well as
general diversity awareness with regards to candidates.
The “Yancoal Way” continues to be rolled out across the Company. The message of
continuous improvement is promoted during recruitment, induction and performance reviews
to promote a culture that encourages engagement, diversity and continuous learning.
The Company continues to build a culture of diversity and inclusion through targeted
education of managers on the positive impact of a diverse workforce and the importance of
adhering to the Company recruitment and diversity policies.
The Company conducts the following formal training schemes:
––
Leadership Development Program for managers to develop managerial and leadership
skills. Components of this training include “Conversations Our Way” and “Great
Team Frameworks”;
––
Technical Competency Training is a competency assurance program for certain operational
roles at mine sites to ensure that personnel are properly trained in the competencies they
require to safely and effectively carry out those roles;
––
Graduate training program which involves providing on-the-job training and cadetships for
graduate and student mining engineering students; and
––
Front-line Leadership Program is intended to prepare employees with the skills required to
advance into supervisory and managerial roles.
4.
Communicate the Company
Recruitment Policy
A human resources representative communicates the Recruitment Policy to managers and
candidates during interviews and the policy is also published on the Company’s intranet.
The Board has set the following measurable objectives in relation to gender diversity for 2019:
1.	 Continue to increase employee awareness and understanding of the importance of diversity by implementing training on the Company’s
Diversity Policy and Workplace Behaviour and Anti‑Discrimination Policy.
2.	 Continue to target a diverse group of candidates with recruitment and selection procedures that are merit based and non‑discriminatory.
3.	 Continue to ensure our managers are adept recruiters, retainers and motivators of our diverse workplace.
4.	 Conduct a pay analysis to ensure all salaries both of males and females are progressing towards the market rate.
5.	 Review of the Workplace Behaviour and Anti-Discrimination Policy.
6.	 Implementation of the Company’s new Parental Leave Policy.
Proportion of Women in the Company
Gender has been identified as a key area of focus for the Company.
On an annual basis, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee
reviews the proportion of women employed by the Company and
submits a report to the Board outlining its findings. Details regarding
the proportion of men and women throughout the organisation are
set out below.
As at 31 December 2018, the proportion of women who were
directly employed by the Company as a whole was 10%: 299 Full-
time, 15 Part-time and four Casual. There was no change between
2017 and 2018 in the percentage of females in comparison to the
percentage of males. The proportion of women in senior management
roles (being roles which directly report to the CEO or CEC) within
the Company during 2018 was 9%: Women held one of 11 senior
management roles within the Company.
On and from 30 January 2018, one female Non-Executive Director
sits on the Board.
Performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee oversees an annual
evaluation process for the Board, its Committees and each Director
based on the Board Performance Evaluation Protocol (Protocol)
adopted and approved by the Board in 2012.
The Board
Periodically, a review of the structure and operation of the Board,
the skills and characteristics required by the Board to maximise
its effectiveness and whether the mix of skills, experience and
expertise and the Board’s practices and procedures are appropriate
for the present and future needs of the Company is conducted.
This evaluation of performance of the Board may be conducted
with the assistance of an external facilitator. As set out in the Board
Charter, the review of the Board involves Directors providing written
feedback on the Board’s performance to the Chairman or to an
external facilitator, which in turn is discussed by the Board, with
consideration of whether any steps for improvement are required.