NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018
108      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
B – PERFORMANCE
B2 REVENUE
Accounting Policies
Revenue is recognised when the control of the products or services has transferred to the customer. Revenue is measured at the amount
of consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring control of products or services to the customer.
Amounts disclosed as revenue are net of returns, trade allowances, rebates and amounts collected on behalf of third parties.
Descriptions of the Group’s performance obligations in contracts with customers and significant judgements applied in revenue recognition
are as follows:
(a) Sales revenue
(i) Sale of coal
The Group produces and sells a range of thermal and metallurgical coal products. Revenue from the sale of coal is recognised when control
of the product has transferred to the customer. Control of the product is considered transferred to the customer at the time of delivery,
usually on a Free On Board (“FOB”) basis or a Cost and Freight (“CFR”) basis. For CFR contracts the performance obligation relating to
freight services is accounted for as a separate performance obligation. On occasion revenue from the sale of coal is recognised as the ship
pulls into harbour on a Free Alongside Ship (“FAS”) basis or from the stockpile on an ex-works basis.
A receivable is recognised when control of the products is delivered as this is the point in time that the consideration is unconditional and
only the passage of time is required before the payment is due. Payment of the transaction price is usually due within 21 days of the date
when control of the product is transferred to the customer. From time to time, the Group receives prepayments before control of the product
has transferred to the customer. Such prepayments are recognised as contract liabilities.
Some of the Group’s coal sales contracts are long-term supply agreements which stipulate the nominal annual quantity and price
negotiation mechanism. For those contracts, the actual quantity and transaction price applicable for future shipments are only negotiated
or determined prior to the beginning of, or a date which is after, each contract year or delivery period. The transaction price for a future
shipment is based on, or derived from, a market price prevailing at the time of the future shipment. As the future market price for coal is
highly susceptible to factors outside the Group’s influence, the transaction price for a shipment is not readily determinable until or nearing
the time of the shipment. As a result, the Group has concluded that a contract with the customer does not exist for those shipments for
which the actual delivery quantity and transaction price have not yet been negotiated or determined.
The transaction price for a shipment is often linked to a market index for the respective delivery period. For example, the transaction price
may be determined by reference to the average GlobalCOAL Newcastle Index for the delivery period. At the end of each reporting period,
the final average index price may not be available for certain shipments. In those situations, the Group uses “the expected value” method
to estimate the amount of variable consideration based on the most recent average index price available for the relevant delivery period as
of the end of the reporting periods and for those shipments, the Group has determined that a significant reversal in the amount of revenue
recognised will not occur.
(b) Other revenue
(i) Interest
Interest income from a financial asset is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate
applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that
asset’s net carrying amount. Interest income from a finance lease is recognised over the term of the lease based on a pattern reflecting a
constant periodic rate of return on the net investment in the lease.
(ii) Mining services fees
The Group provides corporate support services, IT services and mining services which relate to the management of mines. The management
and mining service agreements stipulate a fixed monthly service fee and payment of the service fees is usually due within 21 days after the
end of each calendar month in which the service is rendered. Revenue from providing management and mining services is recognised in
each month in which the services are rendered.
(iii) Sea freight services
When contracts for sale of coal include freight on a CFR basis the performance obligation associated with providing the shipping is
separately measured and recognised as the service is provided.
(iv) Other
Other primarily consists of dividends, rents, sub-lease rental and management fees. Dividends are recognised as revenue when the right to
receive payment is established, it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the dividend will flow to the Group and the amount
of the dividend can be measured reliably. Rental income arising on land surrounding a mine site is accounted for on a straight-line basis over
the lease term. Contingent rental income is recognised as income in the periods in which it is earned.