CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT    ANNUAL REPORT 2018      87
Independence Standard
In assessing the independence of its Directors, the Board has regard
to the factors relevant to assessing the independence of a Director
that are set out in Box 2.3 of the ASX Recommendations (3rd edition)
and Rule 3.13 of the HK Listing Rules. The criteria considered in
assessing the independence of Non‑Executive Directors are also set
out in the Board Charter.
A Director is considered independent if the Director:
––
is not, and has not within the last three years been, employed in
an executive capacity by the Company or any of its child entities;
––
is not, nor has within the last three years been, a partner, Director
or senior employee of a provider of material professional services
to the Company or any of its child entities;
––
is not, nor has within the last three years been, in a material
business relationship with the Company or any of its child entities,
or an officer of, or otherwise associated with, someone with such
a relationship;
––
is not a substantial Shareholder of the Company or an officer
of, or otherwise associated with, a substantial Shareholder of
the Company;
––
does not have a material contractual relationship with the
Company or any of its child entities other than as a Director;
––
does not have close family ties with any person who falls within
any of the categories described above;
––
has not been a Director of the Company for such a period that
his or her independence may have been compromised; and
––
is free from any other interest, position, association or relationship
that might interfere, or might reasonably be seen to interfere, with
the Director’s capacity to bring an independent judgement to bear
on issues before the Board and to act in the best interests of the
Company and its shareholders generally.
The Company’s Constitution provides that the Company’s shareholders
holding a majority of the issued shares of the Company (which confer
the right to vote) may nominate a Director to the office of Chairman
and may elect one or more Directors to the office of Vice Chair.
Although as a nominee of Yanzhou, Baocai Zhang, the Chairman,
is not considered independent by the independence standard (as
above), the Board considers that this is an appropriate reflection of
Yanzhou’s majority shareholding in the Company. While a majority
of the Directors are associated with Yanzhou this is considered
appropriate in light of Yanzhou’s major shareholding in the Company.
Board skills matrix
The Board represents a balance of skills, experience and
diversity of perspectives appropriate to the requirements of the
Company’s business.
The table below sets out the skills and experience that are currently
represented on the Board.
Skills and Experiences
Total
Mining/exploration and production
4
Engineering
4
Capital projects
10
Trading/marketing
4
Strategy
11
Leadership
11
Board/Committee experience
8
Corporate governance
7
Accounting/audit/risk management
7
Government/policy
9
Legal/regulatory
5
Health, safety and environment
6
Human resources
5
International business expertise
9
Induction and professional development
Upon appointment, Directors are provided with an information
pack containing a letter of appointment setting out the Company’s
expectations, Directors’ duties and the terms and conditions of their
appointment, and other materials containing information about the
Company including the Company’s Constitution, charters and policies
to support the induction of Directors to the Board.
Directors also participate in continuing education or development
programs arranged for them, including for example training on
Directors’ duties and developments in workplace health and
safety law.
In preparation for the HK Listing, all Directors undertook training in
respect of matters relating to the HK Listing (including in respect of
the principles in the HK Code) and its interaction with the ASX Listing
Rules on 12 June 2018 (English) and 14 June 2018 (Chinese). The
training was conducted by the Company’s Hong Kong and Australian
based legal advisors.
The Company Secretary supports Directors by providing access to
information in appropriate forms, where requested.
Principle 3: Act ethically and responsibly
Conduct and ethics
The Board policy is that Directors, employees and contractors
must observe both the letter and spirit of the law, and adhere to the
highest standards of business conduct. The Company has adopted a
formal Code of Conduct and other guidelines and policies which are
approved by the Board that set out legal and ethical standards for the
Company’s Directors and employees, including a Conflicts of Interests
and Related Party Transactions Policy.
The Code of Conduct and these other guidelines and policies guide
the Directors, the CEO, senior Executives, and employees generally as
to the practices necessary to maintain confidence in the Company’s
integrity and as to the responsibility and accountability of individuals
for reporting, and investigating reports of, unethical practices. The
Code of Conduct and these other guidelines and policies also guide
compliance with legal and other obligations to stakeholders.
Specifically, the objective of the Code of Conduct is to:
––
provide a benchmark for professional behaviour;
––
support the Company’s business reputation and corporate image
within the community; and
––
make Directors and employees aware of the consequences if they
breach the policy.