COAL
RESOURCES
AND COAL
RESERVES
STATEMENT
The Coal Resources and Coal Reserves statement
presented in this report was produced in accordance
with the Australasian Code for reporting of Mineral
Resources and Ore Reserves 2012 Edition (the JORC
Code). Commodity prices and exchange rates used
to estimate the economic viability of Coal Reserves
are based on the Yancoal long-term forecasts unless
otherwise stated. The Coal Reserves tabulated are all
held within existing, fully permitted mining leases, are
within areas under applications to become mining
leases or are within areas of exploration tenements
detailed in the 2018 Life of Mine Plans to become
mining leases in future applications.
Yancoal’s leases are of sufficient duration (or convey
a legal right to renew for sufficient duration) to enable
all Coal Reserves on the leases to be mined in
accordance with current production schedules.
The information in this report relating to Coal
Resources and Coal Reserves is based on information
compiled by Competent Persons (as defined by the
JORC Code). All Competent Persons have sufficient
experience relevant to the style of mineralisation
and type of deposit under consideration and to
the activity they are undertaking to qualify as
a Competent Person as defined by the JORC Code.
The Competent Persons listed in this report are
independent consultants, apart from the Coal
Resource and Coal Reserve reports for Yarrabee
and the Coal Reserve reports for Mount Thorley
Warkworth, Moolarben, Austar, Ashton and
Donaldson, which have been compiled by full-time
employees of Yancoal Australia Ltd.
These Coal Resources and Coal Reserves reports
were peer reviewed at the time of their generation.
Each Competent Person consents to the inclusion
of the matters based on their information in the
form and context in which it appears in this report.
Yancoal Australia is not aware of any new information
or data that materially affects the information included
in this report and at the time of this report all material
assumptions and technical parameters underpinning
the estimates continue to apply and have not
materially changed.
Coal Resources and Coal Reserves are reported
in 100% terms (unless otherwise stated).
Coal Resources are reported inclusive of the
Coal Resources that have been converted
to Coal Reserves (i.e. Coal Resources are
not additional to Coal Reserves).
The tabulated information is reported by Project;
for details of the tenements and leases containing
Coal Resources and Coal Reserves comprising each
of these projects please refer to the Yancoal Australia
Tenements table.
The following abbreviations are
used throughout this report:
AusIMM: Australasian Institute
of Mining and Metallurgy
JORC:
Joint Ore Reserves Committee
Met:
Metallurgical Coal
PCI:
Pulverised Coal Injection
Mt:
Million tonnes
OC:
Open Cut
UG:
Underground
for the year ended 31 December 2018
30         YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD