DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
80      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
Introduction
The Company adopts an approach to corporate governance based
on international best practice as well as Australian and Hong Kong
law requirements. The Board and management are committed to
corporate governance.
ASX Corporate Governance Statement
To the extent appropriate to the scale and nature of the Company’s
business, the Company has adopted the 3rd edition of the ASX
Corporate Governance Council’s Principles and Recommendations
(ASX Recommendations). This statement sets out the Company’s
compliance with the ASX Recommendations and the main corporate
governance policies and practices adopted by the Company.
HK Listing and Compliance with the Hong Kong Corporate
Governance Code
The Company has also adopted the provisions of the Corporate
Governance Code in Appendix 14 (the HK Code) to the Rules
Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of
Hong Kong Limited (the HK Listing Rules) as part of its corporate
governance policy effective upon its listing on the Main Board of
The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Ltd (HKEx) on 6 December 2018
(the HK Listing).
Since the date of the HK Listing, the Company has implemented
and applied the principles contained within the HK Code in
conducting the Company’s business, including reflecting those
principles in the Company’s Board Charter and relevant policies.
In the opinion of the Board, the Company has complied with
the code provisions of the HK Code (in addition to the relevant
principles of the ASX Recommendations) since the HK Listing up to
and including 31 December 2018. The conduct of the Company’s
compliance with the principles is discussed further in this statement.
Principle 1: Lay solid foundations for management and oversight
Role of the Board
The Board is responsible for the overall corporate governance,
leadership and control of the Company including directing the
affairs of the Company, setting and monitoring the Company’s risk
management strategy and overseeing the appointment, remuneration
and performance of senior executives. The Board is committed to
maximising performance, generating appropriate levels of shareholder
value and financial return, and sustaining the growth and success of
the Company over the longer term. Directors are expected to exercise
their decision making in the best interests of the Company.
The Board’s role and responsibilities and its delegation of authority to
standing committees and senior executives have been formalised in a
Board Charter. The Board Charter can be found within the Corporate
Governance section of the Company’s website.
The Board Charter sets out the procedure by which the Board
collectively, and each individual Director, can seek independent
professional advice at the Company’s expense.
Delegation to management
The Board delegates responsibility for the day to day management of
the Company’s affairs and implementation of the strategy and policy
initiatives set by the Board to the Chair of the Executive Committee
(CEC), the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and other senior Executives.
The Executive Committee is a management committee comprising
the CEC, CEO, the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and any other senior
Executives that the Board resolves from time to time will be members
of the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee Charter sets out the functions of the
Executive Committee and the duties of the CEC, CEO and CFO and
provides for a clear division of responsibility between management
and the Board. The Executive Committee Charter also provides the
financial decision authorities and appropriate approval thresholds at
different levels which have been approved by the Board.
Given the delegation of the day to day management of the Company,
it is the responsibility of management, with the assistance of the
Company Secretary, to provide the Directors with timely, adequate
and appropriate information to assist the Directors in making
informed decisions and to be able to effectively perform their duties
and responsibilities.
Senior Executive contracts
The Company’s senior Executives are employed under employment
contracts that set out the terms of their employment. In 2018,
the Nomination and Remuneration Committee engaged external
remuneration consultants to provide independent market
benchmarking with respect to the remuneration of Yancoal Executives
and Non-Executive Directors. This included providing remuneration
recommendations to better align management with shareholder
interests. As a result of this process, all senior Executives signed new
employment contracts during 2018.
Company Secretary
The Company Secretary supports and is accountable to the Board,
through the Chairman of the Board (Chairman), on all matters to do
with the proper functioning of the Board. The Company Secretary
facilitates the timely flow of information within the Board and between
the Board and management. All Directors have direct access to the
Company Secretary. The Board Charter sets out the other duties of
the Company Secretary, which include being responsible for:
––
ensuring compliance by the Company with the Company’s
Constitution, the provisions of the Corporations Act and other
applicable laws as they relate to the Company;
––
providing corporate governance advice to the Board and
facilitating induction processes and the ongoing professional
development of Directors;
––
ensuring that the Board Charter and relevant policies and
procedures are followed;
––
ensuring that the Company’s books and registers required by
the Corporations Act are established and properly maintained;
––
ensuring that all notices and responses are lodged with ASIC
and ASX on time; and
––
organising and attending shareholder meetings and Directors’
meetings, including sending out notices, preparing agendas,
marshalling proxies and compiling minutes.
The Company Secretary is Laura Ling Zhang. Ms Zhang is in the
process of completing at least 15 hours of professional training to
update her skills and knowledge by 30 June 2019, as required by
the HKEx.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
80      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD