NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      ANNUAL REPORT 2018      151
The book value of Watagan’s net assets has declined since inception
and at 31 December 2018 the book value of liabilities exceeded
the book value of assets by $438 million. These losses have not
been recognised as the accumulated losses exceed the value of the
investment by the Group.
The book value of Watagan’s non-current assets of $1,654 million
includes $743 million, $390 million and $388 million for the Ashton,
Austar and Donaldson mines, respectively.
As noted in the Directors’ Report Austar was subject to prohibition
notices issued by the Resource Regulator that restricted current
operations in Bellbird South, however as announced on 7 August
2018 these notices have now been lifted. Ongoing work is being
undertaken by Watagan in respect of the very challenging geological
and geotechnical conditions at the Austar mine, including both the
Bellbird South and Stage 3 areas that may have a significant adverse
impact on future commercial operations. The future prospects of the
Austar mine are therefore uncertain, and its future carrying value will
depend upon the work currently being conducted by Watagan and
its internal and external advisors (Austar Review). If it is determined
that the mine is unable to return to previously forecast levels of
production, there is a need to proceed to a permanent shutdown, or
there are materially negative changes to other operating assumptions,
including coal prices, exchange rates, operating costs or capital
expenditure, it is likely that the fair value of that mine, and therefore
of Watagan, would be reduced materially. In that event, a material
impairment charge may be recognised. Donaldson remains on care
and maintenance and work remains ongoing to explore potential
future mining operations.
The value of the non-current assets in the Watagan balance sheet has
thus been assessed on an aggregated basis, including that:
––
Austar returns to normal development and production in the Stage
3 area on completion of mining in Bellbird South, this position will
have to be reassessed on completion of the Austar Review; and
––
Donaldson will recommence operations at some time in the future
which is management’s current intention.
The key assumptions in the fair value model of Watagan are
consistent with those disclosed in Note C3 noting that: (i) the Group’s
assessment of the long-term coal prices of USD67 – USD125 per
tonne for thermal coal and USD112 – USD150 per tonne from
metallurgical coal for Watagan mines is at the top of the range of
external forecasts; and (ii) to reflect the increased operational risks
when determining the recoverable amount of the Watagan mines a
3.5% risk premium has been applied to the discount rate, increasing
to 14%.
If it is determined that either or both Austar or Donaldson are
unable to restart operations or return to previously forecast levels of
production or there are materially negative changes to other operating
assumptions, impacting all three mines, including coal prices,
exchange rates, operating costs, capital expenditure, geological
conditions, approvals or changes to existing lease conditions or
regulatory outcomes, it is likely that the fair value of these mines would
be reduced materially. Any impairment of these assets of Watagan
would increase Watagan’s net asset deficit.
In that event, an impairment may be recognised by the Group on its
loan receivable from Watagan; refer to Note D1 for details on the loan,
or on the future reconsolidation of Watagan.
Sensitivities
Apart from the geological and geotechnical issues noted at Austar and
the ongoing work on recommencing mining at Donaldson that directly
impact the physical and cost inputs, the most sensitive input to the
fair value model of Watagan is forecast revenue, which is primarily
dependent on estimated future coal prices and the AUD:USD forecast
exchange rate, and the discount rate.
2018
Watagan
$M
Book Value
1,046
Recoverable Amount
1,073
Head Room
27
US$ Coal Price (i)
+10%
371
–10%
(373)
Exchange Rate (ii)
+5 cents
(228)
–5 cents
269
Discount Rate (iii)
+50 bps
(52)
–50 bps
55
(i)	 This represents change in recoverable amount due to +/– 10%
change to our coal price assumption.
(ii)	 This represents the change in recoverable amount due to a
+/– 5 cents change to the long-term US$:A$ foreign exchange
rate adopted.
(iii)	 This represents the change in recoverable amount due to a
+/– 50bps change in discount rate adopted.
Port Waratah Coal Services Ltd
The Group holds a direct shareholding in Port Waratah Coal Services
Ltd (“PWCS”) of 30% (2017: 30%). Under the shareholder agreement
between the Group and other shareholders, the Group has 30%
of the voting power of PWCS. The Group has the right to appoint
a Director and is currently represented on the Board to partake in
policy‑making processes. The principal activities of PWCS were the
provision of coal receivable, blending, stockpiling and ship loading
services in the Port of Newcastle.
Newcastle Coal Infrastructure Group Pty Ltd
The Group holds 27% (2017: 27%) of the ordinary shares of
Newcastle Coal Infrastructure Group Pty Ltd (“NCIG”). Under the
shareholder agreement between the Group and other shareholders,
the Group has 27% of the voting power of NCIG. The Group has the
right to appoint a Director and is currently represented on the Board
to partake in policy-making processes.
Summarised financial information of associates
The information below reflects the Group’s share of the results of its
principal associates and the aggregated assets and liabilities. They
have been amended to reflect adjustments made by the Group
when using the equity method, including fair value adjustments and
modifications for differences in accounting policy.