NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      ANNUAL REPORT 2018      141
Hedging through bank issued instruments
Operating foreign exchange risk that arises from firm commitments or highly probable transactions is managed through the use of bank issued
forward foreign currency contracts. The Group hedges a portion of contracted US dollar sales receivables and asset purchases settled in
foreign currencies in each currency to mitigate the adverse impact on cash flow due to the future rise or fall in Australian dollars against the
relevant currencies.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in Other
Comprehensive Income in the hedging reserve until the anticipated underlying transaction occurs. Once the anticipated underlying transaction
occurs, amounts accumulated in equity are recycled through the profit or loss or recognised as part of the cost of the asset to which it relates.
The ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised immediately
in the profit or loss. In the current period, the loss relating to the ineffective portion was $nil (2017: $nil).
Natural cash flow hedge
The Group currently does not use bank issued instruments to hedge foreign exchange risks in respect of US dollar denominated loans; however,
the scheduled repayment of the principal on US dollar loans is designated to hedge the cash flow risks on the portion of forecast US dollar
sales that are not hedged through bank issued instruments (“natural cash flow hedge”). US dollar loan repayments up to a six-month period are
designated to hedge the forecast US dollar sales during the same period after the designation of the hedge relationship based on a dollar for
dollar basis until the hedge ratio reaches one.
Hedging effectiveness is determined by comparing the changes in the hedging instruments and hedged sales. Hedge ineffectiveness will occur
when cash flows generated by sales transactions are lower than the forecast sales transaction. In cases of hedge ineffectiveness, gains or
losses in relation to the excess portion in the foreign exchange movement of the designated US dollar loan repayment will be recycled to profit
or loss. The effective portion of changes in the hedging instruments will be recognised in the cash flow hedge reserve in Other Comprehensive
Income. When the sales transactions occur, amounts accumulated in equity are recycled through the profit or loss as an increase or decrease to
sales revenue.
Royalty receivable
The royalty receivable from the Middlemount Joint Venture is estimated based on expected future cash flows that are dependent on sales
volumes, US dollar denominated coal prices and the US dollar foreign exchange rate (refer to Note C9).
Other assets
Other assets include the US$10 million associated with the Warkworth Call Option which was completed in March 2018, and the promissory
note receivable as discussed in Note C7(i). These balances are predominantly held in US dollars and expected to settle within 12 months.
Non-contingent royalty payable and receivable
As part of the acquisition of Coal & Allied in 2017 the Company has agreed to make deferred non-contingent royalty payments to Rio Tinto Plc
(“Rio Tinto”) in US dollars. As described in Note E1 27.9% of non-contingent royalty payable is received from Glencore.
The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk at the end of the reporting period, expressed in Australian dollars, was as follows:
31 December 2018
31 December 2017
USD $M
HKD $M
USD $M
HKD $M
Cash and cash equivalents
560
189
139
–
Trade and other receivables
375
–
432
–
Other assets
48
–
49
–
Non-contingent royalty receivable
193
–
199
–
Trade and other payables
(295)
–
(249)
–
Interest bearing liabilities
(4,096)
–
(4,668)
–
Non-contingent royalty payable
(52)
–
(167)
–
Net exposure
(3,267)
189
(4,265)
–
Sensitivity
The following table summarises the sensitivity of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities to a reasonable possible change in the US dollar
exchange rate. The Group’s exposure to other foreign exchange movements is not material. The Group has used the observed range of actual
historical rates for the preceding five-year period, with a heavier weighting placed on recently observed market data, in determining reasonably
possible exchange movements to be used for the current year’s sensitivity analysis. Past movements are not necessarily indicative of future
movements. A 10% depreciation/appreciation of the Australian dollar against the US dollar would have (decreased)/increased equity and profit
or loss after tax by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables remain constant.