DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
70      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
3.4	Fixed remuneration
Executives receive a Fixed Remuneration package, which incorporates cash salary, superannuation benefits and may include a provision for a
car allowance, together with various other benefits. Executives have some scope to determine the combination of cash (including car allowance)
and various non-monetary benefits by which their FAR is delivered.
Each Senior Executive’s level of fixed remuneration is reviewed annually to provide a base level of remuneration which is appropriate to the
position and competitive with companies of similar size in the mining/resources industry. No Executives are guaranteed an annual increase
in FAR.
In 2018 the Remuneration Committee elected to increase remuneration for certain KMP to ensure remuneration remained competitive and
consistent with contemporary market practice following the benchmarking exercise conducted by Aon Hewitt.
3.5	Variable remuneration
Variable remuneration is delivered through participation in the STIP (as outlined in Section 3.5.1) whilst certain Executives are also eligible
to participate in a LTIP (as outlined in Section 3.5.2).
3.5.1
Short Term Incentive Plan
A new STIP structure was introduced in 2018 that strengthens shareholder alignment and encapsulates performance measures across several
different metrics. The Board has determined that Company performance goals best encapsulate KMP performance for the 2018 performance
year. As such individual performance goals do not form part of the performance metrics for the STIP for 2018 for the executives. The Board
maintains discretion to alter the scorecard outcomes outlined below if the scorecard results generate any unintended outcomes from a reward
perspective considering the perspectives of various stakeholders including but not limited to shareholders, employees and communities.
Eligibility
The STIP applies to Executives as well as other management and employees of the Company.
Objective
The objective of the STIP is to reward Executives and employees for the achievements of the Company, Business Unit and individual goals that
are aligned to the Company’s financial, operational and strategic priorities.
Structure
For 2018 the STIP for KMPs comprised two key components:
1.	 STIP Opportunity – this is expressed as a percentage of the Executive’s FAR. The STIP opportunity is reviewed annually. A benchmarking
exercise is completed against comparable peers in listed companies, and no changes were proposed for 2018. The CEO, CEC, CFO and
COO have a Target STIP opportunity of 100% of FAR, with a maximum opportunity of 200% of the Target STIP opportunity. The Board
believes this level of STIP opportunity is reasonable and competitive for the current environment.
2.	 STIP Scorecard – this consists of several Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”).
At the start of each year, KPIs are reviewed and selected by Board as being the most appropriate to the business. Assessment against these
measures is determined following the end of each year.
For the Executives named in this report, all KPIs are measured at the Company level. The STIP Scorecard measures the Company’s
performance in respect of the following categories:
KPI
Measure
Weighting
Profitability
Net Profit After Tax (“NPAT”)
30%
Free On Board (“FOB”) Cash Costs (excluding royalties)
20%
Run Of Mine tonnes (“ROM”)
10%
Health and Safety
Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (“TRIFR”)
10%
Critical Controls Compliance
5%
Strategic Objectives
Strategic measures may include special projects, capital management,
growth and culture development
15%
Environment
Environmental incidents and complaints
10%
STIP scorecard performance is assessed by the Chairman of the Executive Committee and the Chief Executive Officer, reviewed by the
Nomination and Remuneration Committee, and approved by the Board.
Performance against the STIP Scorecard is converted to a payout multiplier (calculated referencing the relevant maximum level of opportunity).
The payout multiplier is applied to the Target STIP opportunity to determine the actual STIP award. Accordingly, the Executive’s STIP award is
heavily influenced by the achievement of Company KPIs.
Timing
For any KMP STIP award:
––
50% of the award is delivered as a cash payment around April each year.
––
50% of the award will vest in equal parts over a two-year period (25% deferred for one year, remaining 25% deferred for two years)
subject to continued employment at the respective deferral dates. The deferred STIP will be settled in cash or equity.