DIRECTORS’ REPORT      ANNUAL REPORT 2018      71
3.5.2
Long Term Incentive Plan
Following the recommendations provided by Aon Hewitt as part of the incentive design review, new LTIP grants for 2018 will also be subject to
performance hurdles (measured over a three-year period) to assess vesting outcomes. Awards will be delivered in performance share rights and
were granted on 30 May 2018.
The key characteristics of the LTIP are outlined below:
TABLE 5: LTIP 2018 Structure
Eligibility
Executives and certain senior management are eligible to participate in the LTIP.
Objective
The objective of the LTIP is to reward and retain participants who are in positions to influence the Company’s
long-term performance (the LTIP performance period is three years).
Frequency
Each year eligible Executives and certain senior management are considered for an annual LTIP grant.
LTIP opportunity
The Chair of the Executive Committee and the Chief Executive Officer have an annual LTIP opportunity
between 100% and 200% of FAR.
The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operations Officer have an LTIP opportunity of between 33% and
50% of FAR.
LTIP instrument
The LTIP is issued via a grant of performance share rights for nil consideration. The Company may at its
discretion settle an Executive’s and certain senior management’s LTIP in cash or shares.
LTIP performance conditions
The LTIP will vest subject to both service and performance measures over a three-year performance period:
––
Earnings Per Share (“EPS”) Vesting Condition (“EPS Awards”): 60% of the award will vest subject to an EPS
growth performance hurdle (“EPS Hurdle”), which compares the EPS performance of the Company with the
EPS performance of a comparator group of companies operating in the Australian resources sectors over
the relevant performance period; and
––
Costs Target Vesting Condition (“Costs Awards”): 40% of the award will vest subject to the Company
achieving a defined cost per tonne target (“Costs Target Hurdle”) over the relevant performance period.
LTIP performance conditions –
why were they chosen?
The EPS Hurdle was chosen because:
a)	 It allows for an objective external assessment of the shareholder value created by the Company relative
to a group of peers over a sustained period in view of the low liquidity and limited float of Yancoal shares;
and
b)	 It is a widely-adopted metric that is well understood by markets.
The Costs Target Hurdle was chosen and set at a level which provides a structural incentive to LTI participants
to ensure that the Company remains positioned in the best cost quartile of Australian coal producers. Further,
best quartile costs protect and preserve shareholder value in difficult times and support enhanced returns
when commodity cycles recover.
How will the performance
condition be calculated for
the EPS Hurdle?
For the EPS Hurdle, the EPS growth of the Company (based on the Company’s annual report, adjusted for any
share consolidations or splits) is measured as a percentile ranking compared to the EPS growth for the same
period of the comparator group of companies operating in the Australian resources sectors.
The level of vesting will be determined based on the ranking in accordance with the following schedule:
––
at the 75th percentile or above – 100% of the EPS Awards vest;
––
between the 50th and 75th percentiles – vesting will occur on a pro-rata straight-line basis;
––
at 50th percentile – 50% of the EPS Awards vest; and
––
below the 50th percentile – no EPS Awards vest.
Performance Period
––
Each EPS Award is capable of vesting and becoming exercisable after a three-year performance period with
the performance period commencing on 1 January 2018.
––
The Costs Target Awards is based on the FOB cost per saleable tonne achieved on a Company-wide basis
for the year ending 30 December 2020 with Costs Target Awards being tested at, or shortly after, the time
of publication of the independent expert’s report.
––
All awards that do not vest following testing will lapse immediately. There is no re-testing. All vested awards
are automatically exercised.
Allocation Methodology
The number of performance rights granted is calculated by dividing the dollar value of the annual LTI
opportunity by the volume weighted average price of the Company’s ordinary shares traded on the ASX across
a 20-day trading period spread evenly either side of 31 December 2017.
The number of performance share rights was adjusted due to the 35:1 share consolidation undertaken by the
Company in September 2018.