ADDITIONAL HKEx COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS (CONTINUED)
180      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
The Glencore Framework Coal Sales Agreement expires on
31 December 2020 and is automatically renewable for successive
periods of three years thereafter, subject to compliance with the then
applicable provisions of the HK Listing Rules, unless terminated earlier
by not less than three months’ prior notice or otherwise in accordance
with the terms of the Glencore Framework Coal Sales Agreement.
Glencore is a connected person of the Company by virtue of being
a substantial shareholder of the Company’s subsidiary (through
Anotero).
The maximum annual transaction amount to be received by the
Group from Glencore and/or its subsidiaries and/or its related
entities for the three years ending 31 December 2018, 2019 and
2020 will not exceed US$350 million, US$350 million and
US$350 million, respectively. During the year ended 31 December
2018, the transaction amount received by the Group was
approximately A$297.4 million, which was below the annual cap.
7. Purchase of Coal by Sojitz
From time to time, Sojitz Moolarben Resources Pty Ltd (“Sojitz”)
and/or its subsidiaries may purchase coal from the Group primarily
for their own trading purposes and for sale to end customers, typically
into Japan. Specifically, Moolarben Coal Sales Pty Ltd has entered
into a coal supply contract for a term of three years with Sojitz
Corporation in March 2016 for onward supply of coal to a major
industrial user in Japan. This contract is likely to be renewed and it
is expected that this business will be ongoing. Sojitz is a substantial
shareholder of the Moolarben joint venture, a subsidiary of the
Company under the HK Listing Rules. Sojitz is a connected person
of the Company by virtue of being a substantial shareholder of the
Company’s subsidiary.
The coal sales agreement between the Company and Sojitz (the
“Sojitz Coal Sales Agreement”) dated 6 August 2018 governs
all existing and future sales of coal by the Group to Sojitz and/
or its subsidiaries. The Sojitz Coal Sales Agreement provides that
all transactions in relation to the sale of coal by the Group to Sojitz
and/or its subsidiaries must be (i) in the ordinary and usual course
of business of the Group, (ii) on an arm’s length basis, (iii) on normal
commercial terms with the sale price being determined with reference
to market indices, coal quality and an optional analysis to ensure the
price is negotiated on an arm’s length basis and (iv) in compliance
with, amongst other things, the HK Listing Rules and applicable laws.
The Sojitz Coal Sales Agreement expires on 31 December 2020
and is automatically renewable for successive periods of one year
thereafter, subject to compliance with the then applicable provisions of
the HK Listing Rules, unless terminated earlier by not less than three
months’ prior notice or otherwise in accordance with the terms of the
Sojitz Coal Sales Agreement.
The maximum annual transaction amount to be received by the
Group from Sojitz and/or its subsidiaries for the three years ending
31 December 2018, 2019 and 2020 will not exceed US$100
million and US$100 million, respectively. During the year ended 31
December 2018, the transaction amount received by the Group was
approximately US$54.6 million, which was below the annual cap.
8. Sales of Coal by the Group to POSCO and/or its Associates
From time to time, POSCO Australia Pty Ltd (previously known as
Pohang Steel Australia Pty Ltd) (“POSCO”) and/or its associates
may purchase coal from the Group for their own utilisation in the
manufacturing of steel or generation of electricity. POSCO is a
substantial shareholder of the subsidiaries of the Company under
the HK Listing Rules.
The Group entered into five coal sales agreements with
POSCO Group companies that govern the sale of coal by the
Group to POSCO and/or its associates on 21 December 2017
(the “POSCO Coal Sales Agreements”). As POSCO is interested
in 20% of the Mount Thorley JV, a subsidiary of the Company under
the Listing Rules, POSCO is a connected person of the Company by
virtue of being a substantial shareholder of the Company’s subsidiary.
The POSCO Coal Sales Agreements provide that all transactions
in relation to the sale of coal by the Group to POSCO and/or its
associates must be (i) in the ordinary and usual course of business
of the Group, (ii) on an arm’s length basis, (iii) on normal commercial
terms with the sale price being negotiated between the parties on
an arm’s length market-related basis relative to market benchmarks
and reflecting coal quality, and (iv) in compliance with, amongst other
things, the HK Listing Rules and applicable laws. The Group has been
supplying POSCO and/or its associates for several years under annual
contracts which are renewed annually, but where volume and price
are renegotiated annually.
The maximum annual cap in respect of the POSCO Coal
Sales Agreements for the year ended 31 December 2018 was
US$780 million. During the year ended 31 December 2018, the
transaction amount received by the Group was approximately
US$428.1 million, which was below the annual cap.
As the POSCO Coal Sales Agreements are renewed annually, the
Company will set an annual cap for the transactions under the POSCO
Coal Sales Agreements for a further term of one year and will
re‑comply with the applicable requirements of the HK Listing Rules
when the relevant agreements are renewed. As disclosed in the
announcement of the Company dated 29 March 2019, the parties
formally agreed to enter into four coal sales agreements with POSCO
and/or its associates (the “2019 POSCO Coal Agreements”)
on 29 March 2019. The maximum annual cap for the year ending
31 December 2019 is US$780 million.
9. Purchase of Coal from Glencore
From time to time, the Group may purchase coal from Glencore
and/or its associates for on sale to end customers, in order to
maintain customer relationships or to meet specific customer
requirements. The Company entered into a framework coal purchase
agreement with Glencore (the “Glencore Framework Coal
Purchase Agreement”) on 6 August 2018 to govern all existing
and future purchases of coal by the Group from Glencore and/or its
subsidiaries. The Glencore Framework Coal Purchase Agreement
provides that all transactions in relation to the purchase of coal by
the Group from Glencore and/or its associates must be (i) in the
ordinary and usual course of business of the Group, (ii) on an arm’s
length basis, (iii) on normal commercial terms with the sale price
being determined with reference to the prevailing market price for the
relevant type of coal and (iv) in compliance with, amongst other things,
the HK Listing Rules and applicable laws. The Company will take into
account relevant industry benchmarks and indices when determining
the market price. Glencore wholly owns Anotero which is a substantial
shareholder of subsidiaries of the Company under the HK Listing
Rules. Glencore is a connected person of the Company by virtue of
being a substantial shareholder of the Company’s subsidiary.
The Glencore Framework Coal Purchase Agreement expires on
31 December 2020 and is automatically renewable for successive
periods of three years thereafter, subject to compliance with the then
applicable provisions of the HK Listing Rules, unless terminated earlier
by not less than three months’ prior notice or otherwise in accordance
with the terms of the Glencore Framework Coal Purchase Agreement.
The maximum annual transaction amount to be paid by the Group
to Glencore and/or its subsidiaries for the three years ending
31 December 2018, 2019 and 2020 will not exceed US$350 million,
US$350 million and US$350 million, respectively. During the year
ended 31 December 2018, the transaction amount paid by the