NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      ANNUAL REPORT 2018      121
The key assumptions in the model include:
Key assumptions
Description
Coal prices
The Group’s cash flow forecasts are based on estimates of future coal prices, which assume benchmark
prices will revert to the Group’s assessment of the long-term real coal prices of US$67 – US$104 per tonne
(2017: US$65 – US$101 per tonne) for thermal and US$112 – US$217 per tonne (2017: US$110 – US$190
per tonne) for metallurgical coal.
The Group receives long-term forecast coal price data from multiple external sources when determining its
benchmark coal price forecasts and then makes adjustments for specific coal qualities.
The external sources have determined their benchmark coal price forecasts having regard to the latest
International Energy Agency (IEA) New Policy Scenario, the Nationally Determined Contributions submitted
in the lead-up to the Paris Agreement in 2015 and National Energy Policies. This contemplates the global
seaborne demand for thermal coal will remain relatively consistent until 2040 whilst the global seaborne demand
for metallurgical coal will increase up to 2040. Key risks to the outlooks are increasing decarbonisation trends,
trade disputes, protectionism, import control policies in China and investor behaviour to coal project financing.
The Group has considered the impacts of a more rigorous international response to climate change under the
Paris Agreement and notes that the average mine life required for the recoverable amount to continue to exceed
the book value, holding all inputs constant, including coal prices, is seven, seven and three years for the NSW,
Yarrabee and Middlemount CGUs, respectively. The NSW CGU has an 80% exposure to thermal coal and 20%
exposure to metallurgical coal whilst Yarrabee and Middlemount are both metallurgical coal mines.
The Group concludes that whilst a more rigorous international response to climate change could reduce the
future demand for coal the likely impacts of any such actions are not expected to materially impact during the
time periods noted above and hence would not result in the recoverable amount falling below book value.
For both thermal and metallurgical coal the Group’s forecast coal price is within the range of external
price forecasts.
Foreign exchange rates
The long-term AUD/USD forecast exchange rate of $0.75 (2017: $0.75) is based on external sources.
The year end AUD/USD exchange rate was $0.71 per the Reserve Bank of Australia.
Production and capital costs
Production and capital costs are based on the Group’s estimate of forecast geological conditions, stage
of existing plant and equipment and future production levels.
This information is obtained from internally maintained budgets, the five-year business plan, life of mine models,
life of mine plans, JORC reports, and project evaluations performed by the Group in its ordinary course
of business.
Coal reserves and resources
See discussion at Note C2 Mining tenements for how the coal reserves and resources are determined.
Discount rate
The Group has applied a post-tax discount rate of 10.5% (2017: 10.5%) to discount the forecast future
attributable post-tax cash flows.
The post-tax discount rate applied to the future cash flow forecasts represents an estimate of the rate the
market would apply having regard to the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the
future cash flow estimates have not been adjusted.
This rate is also consistent with the Group’s five-year business plan, life of mine models and project evaluations
performed in the ordinary course of business.
Based on the above assumptions at 31 December 2018 the recoverable amount is determined to be above book value for all CGUs resulting
in no further impairment.
At 31 December 2017, the remaining impairment provision at Moolarben of $100 million was reversed. Management assessed the following
as being reasons for the reversal:
––
both the NSW CGU and Moolarben standalone recoverable amounts are above book value;
––
completion of open cut expansions and commencement of underground mining operations during 2017 have derisked future cash flows
and increased production from 8Mt in 2014 to approximately 17Mt of ROM coal; and
––
current and life of mine operating costs and capital expenditure have decreased.
The impairment reversal was recognised through the profit and loss.
Impairment provisions recorded as at 31 December 2018 is $72 million for Stratford and Duralie. Stratford and Duralie is included in the NSW
region CGU. Management may consider reversals of the impairment provision previously recognised if there is either an increase in the average
long-term real revenue over the life of the mine due to either an increase in USD coal prices, or a weakening of the AUD/USD foreign exchange
rate or a combination of both, or reductions in the current and life of mine operating costs, capital expenditure requirements, or an increase in
the reserves.
In determining the value assigned to each key assumption, management has used external sources of information; the expertise of external
consultants; as well as the experience of experts within the Group to validate entity-specific assumptions such as coal reserves and resources.
Additionally various sensitivities have been determined and considered with respect to each of the key assumptions, further supporting the
above fair value conclusions.