NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      ANNUAL REPORT 2018      165
––
Debt instruments that do not meet the amortised cost criteria
or the FVTOCI criteria are classified as at FVTPL. In addition,
debt instruments that meet either the amortised cost criteria or
the FVTOCI criteria may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial
recognition if such designation eliminates or significantly reduces
a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would arise from
measuring assets or liabilities or recognising the gains and losses
on them on different bases. The Group has not designated any
debt instruments as at FVTPL.
Financial assets at FVTPL are measured at fair value, with changes
in fair value arising from remeasurement recognised in profit or loss.
The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss excludes any dividend
or interest earned on the financial assets and is included in the “Other
income” line item.
Significant increase in credit risk
In assessing whether the credit risk on a financial instrument has
increased significantly since initial recognition, the Group compares
the risk of a default occurring on the financial instrument as at the
reporting date with the risk of a default occurring on the financial
instrument as at the date of initial recognition. In making this
assessment, the Group considers both quantitative and qualitative
information that is reasonable and supportable, including historical
experience and forward-looking information that is available without
undue cost or effort. Forward-looking information considered
includes the future prospects of the industries in which the Group’s
debtors operate, obtained from economic expert reports, financial
analysts, governmental bodies, relevant think-tanks and other similar
organisations, as well as consideration of various external sources of
actual and forecast economic information that relate to the Group’s
core operations.
In particular, the following information is taken into account when
assessing whether credit risk has increased significantly since
initial recognition:
––
an actual or expected significant deterioration in the financial
instrument’s external (if available) or internal credit rating;
––
significant deterioration in external market indicators of credit risk
for a particular financial instrument, e.g. a significant increase in the
credit spread, the credit default swap prices for the debtor, or the
length of time or the extent to which the fair value of a financial
asset has been less than its amortised cost;
––
existing or forecast adverse changes in business, financial or
economic conditions that are expected to cause a significant
decrease in the debtor’s ability to meet its debt obligations;
––
an actual or expected significant deterioration in the operating
results of the debtor;
––
significant increases in credit risk on other financial instruments
of the same debtor; and
––
an actual or expected significant adverse change in the regulatory,
economic or technological environment of the debtor that
results in a significant decrease in the debtor’s ability to meet
its debt obligations.
Irrespective of the outcome of the above assessment, the Group
presumes that the credit risk on a financial asset has increased
significantly since initial recognition when contractual payments are
more than 30 days past due, unless the Group has reasonable and
supportable information that demonstrates otherwise.
Despite the foregoing, the Group assumes that the credit risk on
a financial instrument has not increased significantly since initial
recognition if the financial instrument is determined to have low credit
risk at the reporting date. A financial instrument is determined to have
low credit risk if i) the financial instrument has a low risk of default, ii)
the borrower has a strong capacity to meet its contractual cash flow
obligations in the near term and iii) adverse changes in economic and
business conditions in the longer term may, but will not necessarily,
reduce the ability of the borrower to fulfil its contractual cash flow
obligations. The Group considers a financial asset to have low credit
risk when it has an internal or external credit rating of “investment
grade” as per globally understood definition.
The Group regularly monitors the effectiveness of the criteria used to
identify whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk and
revises them as appropriate to ensure that the criteria are capable
of identifying significant increase in credit risk before the amount
becomes past due.
Definition of default
The Group considers the following as constituting an event of default
for internal credit risk management purposes as historical experience
indicates that receivables that meet either of the following criteria are
generally not recoverable:
––
when there is a breach of financial covenants by the counterparty;
or
––
information developed internally or obtained from external sources
indicates that the debtor is unlikely to pay its creditors, including
the Group, in full (without taking into account any collaterals held
by the Group).
Irrespective of the above analysis, the Group considers that default
has occurred when a financial asset is more than 90 days past due
unless the Group has reasonable and supportable information to
demonstrate that a more lagging default criterion is more appropriate.
Credit-impaired financial assets
A financial asset is credit-impaired when one or more events that
have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of
that financial asset have occurred. Evidence that a financial asset is
credit‑impaired includes observable data about the following events:
a)	 significant financial difficulty of the issuer or the borrower;
b)	 a breach of contract, such as a default or past due event;
c)	 the lender(s) of the borrower, for economic or contractual reasons
relating to the borrower’s financial difficulty, having granted to the
borrower a concession(s) that the lender(s) would not otherwise
consider; or
d)	 it is becoming probable that the borrower will enter into
bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation.
Measurement and recognition of ECL
The measurement of ECL is a function of the probability of default,
loss given default (i.e. the magnitude of the loss if there is a default)
and the exposure at default. The assessment of the probability of
default and loss given default is based on historical data adjusted by
forward-looking information as described above. As for the exposure
at default, for financial assets, this is represented by the assets’ gross
carrying amount at the reporting date.
For financial assets, the ECL is estimated as the difference between all
contractual cash flows that are due to the Group in accordance with
the contract and all the cash flows that the Group expects to receive,
discounted at the original effective interest rate.