CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT    ANNUAL REPORT 2018      93
Taxation risks
In addition to the corporate income tax imposed on the Company, the
Company is required to pay government royalties, direct and indirect
taxes and other imposts in the jurisdictions in which the Company will
operate. The Company may be affected by changes in government
taxation and royalty policies or in the interpretation or application of
such policies under Australian laws.
The potential of the Company to obtain the benefit of existing
tax losses and claim other tax attributes will depend on future
circumstances and may be affected by changes in ownership of
both Yanzhou and Yancoal, business activities, thin capitalisation
thresholds, tax bases and any other conditions relating to the use
of tax losses or other attributes of the Group. The ability to use the
Company’s carried forward losses will depend on the Company’s
continued satisfaction of the loss recoupment tests under Australian
tax laws and be subject to the availability of sufficient future
taxable profits.
Australian Accounting Standards (AAS)
AAS are issued by the AASB and are beyond the control of
the Company and the Directors. Any changes to AAS or to the
interpretation of those standards may have an adverse effect on the
reported financial performance or financial position of the Company.
In particular, the accounting treatment for transactions such as
the transfer of the NSW mining assets of Ashton, Austar and
Donaldson to Watagan could be reviewed by standard setters
and may be subject to change. In the event that the Company is
required to reconsolidate Watagan’s results and financial position
into its consolidated financial statements ahead of the scheduled
date in 2025, due to a change to AAS or their interpretation, the
reconsolidation may have an adverse effect on the reported financial
performance or financial position of the Company.
Regulatory approvals risks
The ability of the Company to meet its long-term production target
profile depends on (amongst other things) the Company being able
to obtain on a timely basis, and maintain, all necessary regulatory
approvals (including any approvals arising under applicable mining
laws, environmental regulations and other laws) for its current
operations and expansion and growth projects, including obtaining
planning approvals, land access, land owner consents and addressing
any native title issues, impacts on the environment and objections
from local communities.
The requirement to obtain approvals and to address potential and
actual issues for existing and future mining projects is common to
all companies in the coal sector. However, there is no assurance
or guarantee that the Company will be in a position to secure any
or all of the required consents, approvals and rights necessary to
maintain its current production profile from its existing operations or to
develop its growth projects in a manner which will result in profitable
mining operations and the achievement of its long-term production
targets. If these approvals (or other approvals required for the planned
production increases) are not obtained, or if conditional or limited
approvals are obtained, the economic viability of the relevant projects
may be adversely affected, which may in turn result in the value of the
relevant assets being impaired.
The Company continues to engage openly and transparently with all
State and Federal Government and approval bodies, while operating
to the highest safety, environmental and legislative standards to work
towards facilitating all approvals in a timely manner.
Estimates of Resources and Reserves and geology
The volume and quality of the coal that the Company recovers may
be less than the Resource and Reserve estimates reported to date.
Resource and Reserve estimates are expressions of judgement based
on knowledge, experience and industry practice. There are risks
associated with such estimates, including that coal mined may be of
a different quality or grade, tonnage or strip ratio from those in the
estimates and the ability to economically extract and process the coal
may not eventuate. Resource and Reserve estimates are necessarily
imprecise and depend to some extent on interpretations and
geological assumptions, coal prices, cost assumptions, and statistical
inferences which may ultimately prove to have been unreliable.
Coal Resource and Coal Reserve estimates are regularly revised
based on actual production experience or new information and could
therefore be expected to change. Furthermore, should the Company
encounter mineralisation or formations different from those predicted
by past drilling, sampling and similar examinations, Coal Resource
and Coal Reserve estimates may have to be adjusted and mining
plans, coal processing and infrastructure may have to be altered in
a way that might adversely affect their operations. If it is determined
that mining of certain Coal Reserves is uneconomic, this may lead to
a reduction in the Company’s aggregate Coal Reserve estimates.
Material changes in Coal Reserve estimates, grades, strip ratios,
washing yields or recovery rates may affect the economic viability
of projects. Coal Reserve estimates should not be interpreted
as assurances of mine life or of the profitability of current or
future operations.
If the Company’s actual Coal Resource and Coal Reserve estimates
are less than current estimates, the Company’s prospects, value,
business, results of operations and financial condition may be
materially adversely affected.
Take or pay liabilities
Port and rail (above rail and below rail) capacity is generally contracted
via long-term take-or-pay contracts. The Company will generally be
required to pay for its contracted rail or port tonnage irrespective of
whether it is utilised. Unused port or rail capacity can arise as a result
of circumstances including insufficient production from a given mine,
a mismatch between port and rail capacity for a mine, or an inability
to transfer the used capacity due to contractual limitations such as
required consent of the provider of the port or rail services, or because
the coal must emanate from specified source mines or be loaded onto
trains at specified load points.
Uncertainty in costs forecast
The business operations and financial condition of the Company
may vary with fluctuations in production and capital costs. Changes
in the costs of mining and processing operations as well as capital
costs could occur, including as a result of unforeseen events, such
as international and local economic and political events (including
movement in exchange rates) or unexpected geological or mining
conditions, and could have material adverse financial consequences
for the Company.
NICG and WICET debt
As a shipper in NCIG and WICET, the Company’s source mines are
required to maintain a minimum level of Marketable Coal Reserves
(11 years’ worth of contracted capacity). Non-compliance with this
requirement would result in the termination of the individual contracts
and require the Company to pay its share of any outstanding senior
debt, amortised over the remaining 10 years of that particular
contract. The Company’s current share of the outstanding senior
debt is approximately A$1 billion and A$0.3 billion, respectively.