CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
98      YANCOAL AUSTRALIA LTD
Changes in and future environmental regulations could increase
the standards and costs of compliance, and adversely affect the
Company’s ability to generate the expected economic returns from
its mining assets over their useful lives. The Company may not
always be able to comply with future laws and regulations in relation
to environmental protection economically or at all. There can be no
assurance that the Company will be able to fully and economically
utilise the entire coal resources of the mines it operates currently or in
the future or that some of its mining assets will not become “stranded
assets” that are not able to generate the expected economic returns
over their useful lives.
Environmental legislation may change in a manner that may require
compliance with additional standards, and a heightened degree of
responsibility for companies and their directors and employees. There
may also be unforeseen environmental liabilities resulting from coal
related activities, which may be costly to remedy. In particular, the
acceptable level of pollution and the potential abandonment costs
and obligations for which the Company may become liable as a
result of its activities may be impossible to assess under the current
legal framework.
Health, safety and hazardous materials risks
The Company‘s operations may substantially impact the environment
or cause exposure to hazardous materials. It will use hazardous
materials and will generate hazardous waste, and may be subject to
common law claims, damages due to natural disasters, and other
damages, as well as the investigation and clean-up of soil, surface
water, groundwater, and other media. Such claims may arise, for
example, out of current or former activities at sites that it owns
or operates.
There is also a risk that actions could be brought against the
Company, alleging adverse effects of such substances on personal
health. If any injuries or accidents occur in a mine, this could have
adverse financial implications including legal claims for personal injury,
wrongful death, amendments to approvals, potential production
delays or stoppages, any of which may have a material adverse effect
on the financial performance and/or financial position of the Company.
There is a risk that past, present or future operations have not met,
or will not meet, health and safety requirements and/or that the
approvals or modifications the Company is currently seeking, or
may need to seek in the future, will not be granted at all or on terms
that are unduly onerous. If the Company is unsuccessful in these
efforts or otherwise breaches these health and safety requirements,
it may incur fines or penalties, be required to curtail or cease
operations and/or be subject to increased compliance costs or
costs for rehabilitation or rectification works, which have not been
previously planned, at one or more of its sites.
Impairment risks
The Company’s balance sheet includes a number of assets that are
subject to impairment risk, including mining tenements, exploration
and evaluation assets, goodwill, the Middlemount loan and royalty
receivable, the Watagan loan receivable and investments accounted
for using the equity method.
The value of these assets is derived from the fundamental valuation
of the underlying mining operations and as such is subject to many of
the risks including, but not limited to, coal price and demand, foreign
exchange, coal production, estimates of reserves and resources,
uncertainty in costs forecasts, operating risks, injury and mine closure.
Adverse changes in these risk factors could lead to a reduction in the
valuation of the Company’s assets and result in an impairment charge
being recognised.
Internal audit function
The internal audit function is managed by the GM of Risk and
Assurance. That person has direct access to the Chair of the Audit
and Risk Management Committee, as well as to the CEC, to whom
he directly reports. The CEC and the Audit and Risk Management
Committee recommend to the Board the appointment of the GM
of Risk and Assurance.
The GM of Risk and Assurance has unfettered access to the Audit
and Risk Management Committee and its Chair to seek information
and explanations. The Chair of the Audit and Risk Management
Committee meets independently with the GM Risk and Assurance.
The role of the GM Risk and Assurance includes achievement
of the internal audit objectives, risk management policies and
insurance strategy.
An annual program for internal audit and risk assurance is provided
to the Audit and Risk Management Committee for approval. The
annual Internal Audit program is focused on key operating risks and
processes, control design and operating effectiveness.
The program includes a review of compliance with the obligations
imposed by the General Rules on Internal Control for Enterprises and
the Supporting Guidelines of Internal Control for Enterprises, jointly
issued by five Chinese ministries.
Periodical status reports on the execution of the plan, including
current findings and actions, are provided to the Audit and Risk
Management Committee. This includes key issues and subsequently
corrective actions are monitored, reviewed and reported. Any material
findings are reported to the Board.
Health, Safety and Environment Compliance
The Company has adopted policies to comply with occupational
health, safety, environment and other laws. The Board has a Health,
Safety and Environment Policy in place since May 2016 which applies
across the Company. In addition, each mine site has its own health,
safety and environmental policies and procedures to deal with their
particular health, safety and environmental issues. The Board has
established a Health, Safety and Environment Committee to assist
it in overseeing the Company’s health, safety and environmental
responsibilities. In accordance with its charter, which was reviewed
and amended in October 2018 to provide for relevant provisions
of the HK Listing Rules, this committee has a minimum of at least
three members. The current members of this committee are David
Moult (appointed 6 February 2018) (Chair of the committee), Geoffrey
Raby, Fuqi Wang and Fucun Wang (appointed 8 June 2018). Vincent
O’Rourke resigned as Chair of the committee on 30 January 2018.
It is intended the committee meets at least four times per year, or as
frequently as required. The committee meetings are held at one of the
Company’s mine sites, whenever possible, to receive feedback from
the health, safety and environment forum held at the mine site and to
address any mine-specific health, safety and environment issues.