48
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
Port Waratah Coal Services (“PWCS”)
Yancoal has take-or-pay contracts with PWCS for the export
of coal through the terminals at Newcastle, with a port allocation
of approximately 11.9Mt (100 percent basis).
Wiggins Island Coal Export Terminal (“WICET”)
(Yancoal 7.5 percent)
Yancoal is one of five owners of WICET, which has a capacity
of 27Mt per annum. Yancoal’s contracted capacity is 1.5Mt
per annum, allocated to the Yarrabee Mine.
Community and Environment
Yancoal is committed to operating its mines to the
highest environmental standards in accordance with
all legislative requirements.
Each mine has actively implemented and continues to update
its environmental management systems and practices including
the rehabilitation of all sites as part of its life of mine plans and
license to operate.
The Company is obliged to report on its environmental
management performance to the respective authorities
in each state and Yancoal continues to work with the various
Government departments to ensure full transparency in its
environmental reporting.
Yancoal also remains committed to making a significant positive
difference within the communities in which it operates via the
provision of employment opportunities and engagement of local
contractors and service providers where possible.
Through its robust Community Support Initiative at each mine
site, Yancoal continues to financially invest in local and regional
health, environmental, educational and sporting initiatives.
In 2016, Yancoal invested approximately $445,727 into
community based initiatives. Yancoal takes its responsibility for
engaging transparently and co-operatively with its community
stakeholders very seriously, relying upon community consultative
committees, local newsletters, local media, community days and
site-specific websites to keep the community informed.
Environmental regulation
The Group is subject to significant environmental regulation.
Its energy regulation activities are set out below.
Greenhouse gas and energy data reporting requirements
The National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act 2007
(Cth) (“NGER”) requires Yancoal to report its annual greenhouse
gas emissions and energy use. The Group has implemented
systems and processes for the collection and calculation
of the data required and submitted its 2015/2016 s19 Energy
and Emissions Report to the Federal Clean Energy Regulator
on 31 October 2016. The Group continues to investigate and
implement energy efficiency opportunities and share initiatives
between sites.
Significant changes in the state of affairs
There have been no significant changes to the state of
affairs during the financial year that has significantly affected
the operations of the Group, the results of those operations
or the state of affairs of Yancoal or economic entity.
Matters subsequent to the end of the financial year
Subsequent to the reporting period, on 24 January 2017,
Yancoal announced it has entered into a binding agreement
to acquire 100 percent of the shares in Coal & Allied Industries
Limited (“Coal & Allied”) from wholly-owned subsidiaries of Rio
Tinto Limited for US$2.45 billion4 (A$3.27 billion5) in completion
and deferred cash payments, plus a coal price linked royalty
(the “Transaction”).
The Transaction is subject to a number of closing conditions,
including Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shareholder
approval, Yanzhou shareholder approval and various regulatory
approvals. The Transaction is expected to complete in the third
quarter of 2017.
In accordance with the Terms of Issue of the Subordinated Capital
Notes (“SCN”) issued by Yancoal SCN Limited in December 2014,
the next distribution payment date for the SCNs occurred on 31
January 2017. The distribution was paid at a rate of seven percent
per annum or US$3.50 per SCN. The total amount distributed was
US$63.0 million.
Likely developments and expected results of operations
Guidance for saleable production in 2017 is 12.0Mt–12.5Mt
(equity share). Forecast for 2017 capital expenditure is
approximately $244 million (equity share).
Directors’ Report
4 Comprises US$1.95 billion cash payment at completion and US$500 million in aggregate deferred cash payments, payable as annual instalments
of US$100 million over five years following completion. 5 Based on an AUD/USD exchange rate of 0.75.