87
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
There is a risk that past, present or future operations have not
met, or will not meet, health and safety requirements and/or that
the approvals or modifications the Company is currently seeking,
or may need to seek in the future, will not be granted at all or on
terms that are unduly onerous. If the Company is unsuccessful
in these efforts or otherwise breaches these health and safety
requirements, it may incur fines or penalties, be required
to curtail or cease operations and/or be subject to increased
compliance costs or costs for rehabilitation or rectification works,
which have not been previously planned at one or more of its sites.
Impairment risks
Effective on and from 31 March 2016 (“Completion Date”), the
Company put in place a new financial arrangement, by executing
a Bond Subscription Agreement and other relevant or incidental
agreements (“Watagan Agreements”). In general, the Company
has secured up to US$950 million in new debt funding via the
issue of nine-year secured debt bonds by a newly established
subsidiary of the Company, Watagan Mining Company Pty Ltd
(“Watagan”), to Industrial Bank Co., Ltd, BOCI Asia Financial
Products Limited and United NSW Energy (“UNE”).
In accordance with the terms of the Watagan Agreement, the
Company’s interests in the New South Wales mining assets of
Ashton, Austar and Donaldson have been transferred to Watagan,
a majority of directors of which are nominated by UNE. As a
consequence, the Company ceased to control Watagan and its
subsidiaries from an accounting perspective, and the assets,
liabilities and results of Watagan and its subsidiaries will not
be incorporated into the Company’s consolidated financial
statements from the Completion date.
At the end of the term of the Bond Subscription Agreement,
which is scheduled for in 2025, (or earlier if control over Watagan
is determined to pass back to the Company), the Company would
reconsolidate Watagan’s results and financial position for the
point that control is regained, and this re-acquisition would be
treated as a business combination. Additionally, the Bondholders
have a put option that allows them to put the issued debt bonds to
Yankuang at approximately years three, five, seven and nine of the
bond term, or on an event of default after three years. Exercise of
this put option would also result in the Company regaining control
of Watagan.
As of 31 December 2016, the Company has a loan receivable
from Watagan of AUD$775 million (re-drawable up to
AUD$1.36 billion) which is subject to impairment testing.
There is a guarantee provided by Yankuang Group Co., Ltd
(being the ultimate parent entity of the Company) to indemnify
the Company for any amounts due and payable under the loan
which are not paid by Watagan. However, it is noted that when
control over Watagan is regained, Watagan will be subject to
business combination accounting that will require the Company
to fair value the assets and liabilities being acquired from
Watagan at that time and, could result in a deficit to the value
of the loan being recognised as a financial loss.
Internal audit function
The internal audit function is managed by the Executive
General Manager (EGM) of Risk Management and Auditing.
That person has direct access to the chair of the Audit and Risk
Management Committee, as well as to the CEC, to whom he
directly reports. The Audit and Risk Management Committee
recommends to the Board the appointment of the EGM Risk
Management and Auditing.
Where appropriate the internal audit function is supported
primarily by external consultants.
The EGM of Risk Management and Auditing has unfettered
access to the Audit and Risk Management Committee and its
chair to seek information and explanations. The chair of the Audit
and Risk Management Committee meets independently with the
EGM Risk Management and Auditing.
The role of the EGM Risk Management and Auditing includes
achievement of the internal audit objectives, risk management
policies and insurance strategy.
An annual program for internal audit and risk assurance
is provided to the Audit and Risk Management Committee
for approval. The annual Internal Audit program is focused
on key operating risks and processes design and effectiveness.
The program includes a review of compliance with the
obligations imposed by the US Sarbanes Oxley Act (SOX),
including evaluating and documenting internal controls as
required by section 404 of SOX.