103
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
B6: TAXATION
Accounting policies
The income tax expense or benefit for the period is the tax
payable on the current period’s taxable income based on the
applicable income tax rate enacted or substantially enacted
at the end of the reporting period for each jurisdiction,
adjusted by changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities
attributable to temporary differences and to unused tax losses.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability
method, on temporary differences arising between the tax
bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in
the consolidated financial statements. However, the deferred
income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial
recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other
than a business combination that at the time of the transaction
affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred
income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that
have been enacted or substantially enacted by the end of the
reporting period and are expected to apply when the related
deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income
tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for deductible temporary
differences and unused tax losses only if it is probable that
future taxable amounts will be available to utilise those
temporary differences and losses. The carrying value of the
deferred tax asset is reviewed at each reporting period and
reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that future
taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the asset to
be recovered.
Deferred tax liabilities and assets are recognised for taxable
temporary differences between the carrying amount and tax
bases of investments in controlled entities, except where the
parent entity is able to control the timing of the reversal of the
temporary differences and it is probable that the differences
will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is
a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and
liabilities and when the deferred tax balances relate to the
same taxation authority. Current tax assets and tax liabilities
are offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right
to offset and intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise
the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Current and deferred tax is recognised in the profit or loss,
except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other
comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case, the tax
is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly
in equity, respectively.
Tax consolidation legislation
Yancoal Australia Ltd and its wholly owned Australian
controlled entities have implemented the tax consolidation
legislation for income tax purposes. The accounting policy in
relation to this legislation is set out in Note E3.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The Group is subject to income taxes in Australia. Significant
judgement is required in determining the provision for income
taxes. Deferred tax assets, including those arising from
unutilised tax losses, require the Group to assess the likelihood
that the Group will generate sufficient taxable earnings
in future periods, in order to utilise recognised deferred tax
assets. Judgement is also required in respect of the application
of existing tax laws. Assumptions about the generation of future
taxable profits depend on management’s estimates of future
cash flows. These estimates of future taxable income are based
on forecast cash flows from operations (which are impacted by
production and sales volumes, coal prices, reserves, operating
costs, closure and rehabilitation costs, capital expenditure, and
other capital management transactions). To the extent that future
cash flows and taxable income differ significantly from estimates,
the ability of the Group to realise the net deferred tax assets
recorded at the reporting date could be impacted. In addition,
future changes in tax laws could limit the ability of the Group to
obtain tax deductions in future periods.