160
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
31 December 2016
F: OTHER INFORMATION
F7: NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS (CONTINUED)
Reference
and Title
Details of New Standard/Amendment/Interpretation
Application Date
for the Group
AASB 2014–10
Amendments to Australian Accounting Standards—Sale or Contribution of Assets between
an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture.
This Standard amends AASB 10: Consolidated Financial Statements with regards to a parent losing
control over a subsidiary that is not a “business” as defined in AASB 3 to an associate or joint venture, and
requires that:
a) A gain or loss (including any amounts in other comprehensive income (OCI)) be recognised
only to the extent of the unrelated investor’s interest in that associate or joint venture;
b) The remaining gain or loss be eliminated against the carrying amount of the investment
in that associate or joint venture; and
c) Any gain or loss from remeasuring the remaining investment in the former subsidiary at fair
value also be recognised only to the extent of the unrelated investor’s interest in the associate
or joint venture. The remaining gain or loss should be eliminated against the carrying amount
of the remaining investment.
The application of AASB 2014–10 will result in a change in accounting policies for transactions
of loss of control over subsidiaries (involving an associate or joint venture) that are businesses
per AASB 3 for which gains or losses were previously recognised only to the extent of the unrelated
investor’s interest.
Impact: The Group is currently adhering to this standard and there is no material impact expected
on the Group’s financial report.
1 January 2018
AASB 2016–1
Amendments to Australian Accounting Standards—Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets
for Unrealised Losses
This standard clarifies that deferred tax asset recognition on unrealised losses arising from assets
measured at fair value in the financial statements should be done after taking in to account any restrictions
imposed under tax laws on the source of taxable profits against which the deductible temporary
differences can be offset. Further the future taxable profits should not include any amounts that are reversal
of the deductible temporary differences.
Impact: The Group is currently adhering to this standard and there is no material impact expected
on the Group’s financial report.
1 January 2017
AASB 2016–2
Amendments to Australian Accounting Standards—Disclosure Initiative:
Amendments to AASB 107
The amendment to AASB 107 introduces additional disclosures that will enable users of financial statements
to evaluate changes in liabilities arising from financing activities. The amendment requires disclosure of
changes arising from:
•	 Cash flows, such as drawdowns and repayments of borrowings, and
•	 Non-cash changes, such as acquisitions, disposals and unrealised exchange differences.
Impact: The Group is currently adhering to this standard and there is no material impact expected
on the Group’s financial report.
1 January 2017
AASB 2016–5
Amendments to Australian Accounting Standards—Classification and Measurement
of Share-based Payment Transactions
This standard provides guidance on treatment of vesting conditions in a cash-settled share based
payment arrangement that are similar to what has been prescribed for equity settled share based payment
arrangements. It also clarifies that, subject to certain exceptions, share based payment transactions with
net-settlement feature on account of withholding tax obligations should be classified in entirety as equity
settled share based payment.
Impact: Since the group does not have a policy of cash-settled share based awards or net-settlement
features in equity settled plans, this standard is not expected to impact the Group’s financial statements.
1 January 2018