78
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
The key values underpinning the Code of Conduct are:
•	 Our actions must be governed by the highest standards
of integrity and fairness;
•	 Our decisions must be made in accordance with the letter
and spirit of applicable law; and
•	 Our business must be conducted honestly and ethically,
with our best skills and judgement, and for the benefit of
customers, employees, shareholder and the Company alike.
The Code of Conduct is available in the Corporate Governance
section of the Company’s website.
Reporting concerns and whistleblower protection
The Company’s Speak-Up Yancoal Ethics policy encourages
employees, directors, contractors and consultants to raise
serious concerns within the Company and report any issues if
they genuinely believe a person has, or persons have, breached
Yancoal’s Code of Conduct, policies or the law. The policy also
protects individuals who in good faith report misconduct
which they reasonably believe to be corrupt, illegal or unethical
on a confidential basis, without fear of reprisal, dismissal or
discriminatory treatment; and assists in ensuring that matters
of misconduct and/or unethical behaviour are identified and
dealt with appropriately.
Individuals can report their concerns confidentially online,
via confidential email to an external facilitator or by telephoning
a confidential Speak-Up Line.
All disclosures made under this policy will be treated seriously
and be the subject of a thorough investigation with the objective
of locating evidence that either substantiates or refutes the
misconduct disclosed by an employee. Such investigations will be
facilitated independently from the business unit concerned, the
employee who made the disclosure or any person being the subject
of the reportable conduct. The Company will determine, based on
the seriousness of the disclosure, whether the investigation will be
conducted internally by a senior member of management or the
external facilitator.
Principle 4: Safeguard integrity in corporate reporting
Audit and Risk Management Committee
The Board has established an Audit and Risk Management
Committee. The committee plays a key role in helping the Board
to oversee financial reporting, internal control structure, risk
management systems and internal and external audit functions.
The committee has the necessary power and resources to meet
its responsibilities under its charter, including rights of access
to management and auditors (internal and external) and to seek
explanations and additional information. The committee meets at
least four times per year, or as frequently as required. The Charter
of the Audit and Risk Management Committee can be found
in the Corporate Governance section of the Company’s website.
The purpose of the Audit and Risk Management Committee
is outlined under the Board committees section above.
In accordance with its Charter, the Audit and Risk Management
Committee has at least three members. The current members
of this committee are Gregory Fletcher (chair of the committee),
Yuxiang Wu and Geoffrey Raby. The committee consists only
of Non-Executive Directors with a majority being independent.
Consistent with the ASX Recommendations, the chair of the
committee is an independent Non-Executive Director and is
not the Chairman. The qualifications, skills and experience of
each member is disclosed in the Information on directors in the
Directors’ Report, on page 49.
The Company has also employed a full time EGM of Risk
Management and Auditing. His role is described further
under Principle seven.
CEO and CFO certifications on financial reports
The CEO and CFO have declared in writing to the Board that
in respect of the half year ended 30 June 2016 and the full year
ended 31 December 2016, in their opinion, the financial records
of the Company have been properly maintained and the financial
statements comply with the appropriate accounting standards and
give a true and fair view of the financial position and performance
of the Company, and that their opinion has been formed on the
basis of a sound system of risk management and internal control
which is operating effectively.
Corporate Governance Statement