139
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
(b) Interests in associates and joint ventures
Set out below are the associates and joint ventures of the Group as at 31 December 2016. The entities listed below have share capital
consisting solely of ordinary shares, which are held directly by the Group. The country of incorporation or registration is also their
principal place of business.
Place of Business
/Country of
Incorporation
% of Ownership Interest
Carrying Amount of Investment
Name of Entity
2016
%
2015
%
Nature of
Relationship
Measurement
Method
2016
$M
2015
$M
Newcastle Coal
Infrastructure
Group Pty Ltd
Australia
27
27
Associate
Equity method
Watagan
Mining
Company Ltd
Australia
100
Associate
Equity method
Middlemount
Coal Pty Ltd
Australia
49.9997
49.9997
Joint Venture
Equity method
4.7
7.7
(i) Investment in associates
Newcastle Coal Infrastructure Group Pty Ltd
The Group holds 27 percent (2015: 27 percent) of the
ordinary shares of Newcastle Coal Infrastructure Group
Pty Ltd (“NCIG”). Under the shareholder agreement between
the Group and other shareholders, the Group has 27 percent
of the voting power of NCIG. The Group has the right to appoint
a director and is currently represented on the Board to partake
in policy-making processes.
Watagan Mining Company Pty Limited
During 2015 the Group established a 100 percent owned
subsidiary, Watagan Mining Company Pty Ltd (“Watagan”).
On 18 February 2016, the Group executed a Bond Subscription
Agreement, together with other agreements (the “Watagan
Agreements”) that, on completion, transferred the Group’s
interest in three of its 100 percent owned NSW coal mining
operations, being the Austar, Ashton and Donaldson coal mines
(the “three mines”), to Watagan for a purchase price of $1,363.4
million (an amount equal to the book value of the three mines
at completion). The purchase price was funded by way of a
$1,363.4 million loan from Yancoal Australia Ltd to Watagan
bearing interest at BBSY plus 7.06 percent with a maturity date
of 1 April 2025. The outstanding interest and principal of this
loan is guaranteed by Yankuang Group Co., Ltd (“Yankuang”),
the Group’s ultimate parent entity. The completion date of the
transaction was 31 March 2016.
On completion Watagan issued US$775 million of secured debt
bonds with a term of approximately nine years to three external
financiers (“Bondholders”). Watagan will issue up to a further
US$175 million of debt bonds to one of the Bondholders prior
to 31 March 2017. The Bondholders will receive interest on the
face value outstanding on the bonds comprising a fixed interest
component, as well as a variable interest component that is
tied to the EBITDA performance of Watagan. Under the terms
of the Watagan Agreements, it was determined that upon
issuance of the bonds the Group lost control of Watagan.
This loss of control was determined to occur on the issuance
date of the bonds on the basis that the power over the key
operating and strategic decisions of Watagan no longer reside
with the Group. Specifically, those powers were transferred
to the Bondholders under the terms of the Watagan Agreements
as the Bondholders were given control of Watagan’s board of
directors via appointment of the majority of directors. This loss
of control resulted in the Group de-consolidating the consolidated
results of Watagan from the transaction completion date and
the Group began to equity account for its 100 percent equity
interest in Watagan as an associate. At 31 December 2015 due
to the Watagan transaction being near completion, and that the
transaction was considered to be highly likely, the three mines
were disclosed as Assets Classified as Held for Sale.