80
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
The Company’s Shareholder Communication Policy which
was approved by the Board, can be found within the Corporate
Governance section of the Company’s website.
Principle 7: Recognise and manage risk
Risk identification and management
The Board, through the Audit and Risk Management Committee,
is responsible for satisfying itself that a sound system of risk
oversight and management exists and that internal controls
are effective. In particular, the Board ensures that:
•	 The principal strategic, operational, financial reporting
and compliance risks are identified; and
•	 Systems are in place to assess, manage, monitor and report
on these risks.
The role and membership of the Audit and Risk Management
Committee are described under Principles two and four.
The Company’s Audit and Risk Management Committee Charter
can be found within the Corporate Governance section of the
Company’s website.
The Board has requested the Company’s senior executives
and management to report to the Audit and Risk Management
Committee and, where appropriate the Board, regarding
the effective management of its material business risks.
In 2016, the Audit and Risk Management Committee had in place
a framework to identify and manage material business risks.
This framework includes:
•	 Identification of material business risk by the Executive
Committee by reference to a single risk register, approved
by the Audit and Risk Management Committee and Board;
•	 Implementation of a risk management framework
(that includes a risk management policy, governance structure,
procedures), approved by the Audit and Risk Management
Committee and Board;
•	 Formal risk identification activities being undertaken at both
a functional level and at each of the Company’s mine sites;
•	 Designated individuals across the business that have
accountability for the implementation of risk management
within their areas of responsibility;
•	 The EGM of Risk Management and Auditing as a central
resource available to assist with all risk management
responsibilities, and to assist with any training/awareness
or other related requirements; and
•	 Adherence to internal procedures and plans
for crisis management.
The Audit and Risk Management Committee receives periodic
reports on the performance of the Company’s risk management
framework, as well as on the Company’s key risk exposures to
satisfy itself that it continues to be sound. Although a review
of the risk management framework was not conducted in 2016,
a review of the Company’s corporate risk register was carried
out in 2016 and an update on risk management process was
a standing item for each of the Audit and Risk Management
Committee meetings in 2016. It is intended that a review
of the Company’s risk management framework is conducted
on an annual basis from 2017.
Formal risk identification activities are undertaken on an
annual basis as part of the five-year Strategic Planning Process
undertaken each year; with Risk Identification and Analysis
undertaken at a functional level, as well as at each of the
organisation’s mine sites. In addition, where appropriate,
project specific risk assessments are conducted.
The EGM of Risk Management and Auditing is responsible for
establishing and managing the Company’s wide risk management
system, risk management framework and practices, reviewing
the impact of the risk management framework on its control
environment and insurance arrangements and reviewing the risk
of major investment projects. Together with the CEC, the Board
and the Audit and Risk Management Committee, the EGM of
Risk Management and Auditing is responsible for developing
a risk matrix and framework and for implementing related risk
assurance processes and audits of compliance for the Company
and its subsidiaries.
The responsibility for managing risks, risk controls or risk
management action plans is embedded within the business
and undertaken as part of everyday activities.
Corporate Governance Statement