67
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
7. EQUITY INSTRUMENT DISCLOSURES
The numbers of shares in the Company held during the financial
year by each director of the Company and other key management
personnel of the Group, including their personally related parties,
are set out below. There were no shares granted during the
reporting period as compensation.
(i)	 Mr Gregory Fletcher:
-	 Holds 1,000 fully paid ordinary shares in Yancoal
Australia Ltd. There were no movement in these shares
in 2016; and
-	 Holds 24 Subordinated Capital Notes issued by Yancoal
SCN Limited (“Yancoal SCN”), a wholly owned subsidiary
of Yancoal Australia Limited, at their issue price of
US$100 each.
(ii)	 Mr Reinhold Schmidt:
-	 Holds 135,781 fully paid ordinary shares in Yancoal
Australia Ltd. There were no movement in these shares
in 2016; and
-	 Holds 80 Subordinated Capital Notes issued by Yancoal
SCN, at their issue price of US$100 each.
(iii)	Mr Baocai Zhang holds 1,162,790 fully paid ordinary shares in
Yancoal Australia Ltd. There were no movement in these
shares in 2016;
(iv)	 Mr Vincent O’Rourke holds 250,000 fully paid ordinary
shares in Yancoal Australia Ltd. There were no movement
in these shares in 2016;
(v)	 On 17 August 2016, Mr Gregory James O’Rourke (being
a related party of Mr Vincent O’Rourke) acquired 40,000
fully paid ordinary shares in Yancoal Australia Ltd;
(vi)	 No other key management personnel held any shares in
respect of Yancoal Australia Ltd or its related entities at,
or during the year ended 31 December 2016.
8.	OTHER TRANSACTIONS WITH AND LOANS
TO KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL
A number of Key Management Personnel and Directors hold
positions in other entities that result in them having control
or significant influence over the financial or operating policies
of those entities.
Some of these entities transacted with the Company or its
subsidiaries in the reporting period. The terms and conditions
of any transactions with management, Directors or parties related
to management personnel or Directors were no more favourable
than those available, or which might reasonably be expected to be
available, on similar transactions to non-management or Director
related persons or entities on an arm’s length basis (refer to Note
E2) There were no loans provided to KMPs during the year.
Insurance of officers or auditors
During the financial year, the Company paid a premium
for Directors’ and Officers’ Liability insurance as well as Defence
Costs cover. The policies cover the Directors and other officers
of the Group. The Directors have not included details of the
nature of the liabilities covered and the amount |of premium
paid in respect of the Directors’ and Officers’ Liability insurance
policy as such disclosure is prohibited under the terms of
insurance contracts.
Proceedings on behalf of the Company
No person has applied to the Court under section 237 of
the Corporations Act 2001 for leave to bring proceedings
on behalf of the Company, or to intervene in any proceedings
to which the Company is a party, for the purpose of taking
responsibility on behalf of the Company for all or part of
those proceedings.
No proceedings have been brought or intervened in on behalf
of the Company with leave of the Court under section 237
of the Corporations Act 2001.
Non-audit services
The Company may decide to employ the auditor on assignments
additional to their statutory audit duties where the auditor’s
expertise and experience with the Group are important.
Details of the amounts paid or payable to the auditor for non-audit
services provided during the year are set out overleaf.