118
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
C9: ROYALTY RECEIVABLE
Accounting policy
The royalty receivable is revalued at each reporting period based on expected future cash flows that are dependent on sales
volumes, price changes and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the
royalty receivable is recognised in profit or loss. The cash receipts will be recorded against the royalty receivable which will be
decreased over time. Since the contract is long term, unwinding of the discount (to reflect the time value of money) for the asset
will be recognised under interest income.
The royalty receivable is measured based on management’s expectations of the future cash flows with the re-measurement
recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income at each reporting date.
The amount expected to be received during the next 12 months is disclosed as a current receivable and the discounted expected
future cash flow beyond 12 months is disclosed as a non current receivable.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The fair value of the royalty receivable is estimated based on expected future cash flows that are dependent on sales volumes,
price changes and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
C10: PROVISIONS
Accounting policies
Provisions are:
•	 Recognised when: the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event; it is probable that
cash will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount has been reliably estimated
•	 Measured at the present value of the management’s best estimate at reporting date of the cash outflow required to settle
the obligation.
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability where the time value is material. Any increase in
the provision due to the passage of the time is recognised as an interest expense.
31 December
2016
$M
31 December
2015
$M
Opening balance
204.9
199.2
Cash received/Receivable
(20.5)
(17.9)
Unwinding of the discount
20.9
21.2
Re-measurement of royalty receivable
(6.4)
2.4
198.9
204.9
Split between:
Current
31.2
19.7
Non-current
167.7
185.2
198.9
204.9
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
31 December 2016
C: OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
A right to receive a royalty of 4 percent of Free on Board Trimmed sales from the Middlemount mine was acquired as part of the merger with Gloucester Coal Ltd.
This financial asset has been determined to have a finite life being the life of the Middlemount Mine and is measured on a fair value basis.