86
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
Development and exploration activities may be affected by
factors beyond the control of the Company, including geological
conditions, seismic activity, mineralisation, consistency and
predictability of coal grades, changes to law, changes to the
regulatory framework applying to mining, overlapping resources
tenure, and the rights of indigenous people on whose land
exploration activities are undertaken.
Any discovery of a mineral deposit does not guarantee that the
mining of that deposit would be commercially viable, with the size
of the deposit, development and operating costs, land ownership,
coal prices and recovery rates all being key factors in determining
commercial viability.
Transport and infrastructure
Coal produced from the Company’s mining operations is
transported to customers by a combination of road, rail and sea.
A number of factors could disrupt or restrict access to essential
coal transportation and handling services, including (but not
limited to):
•	 Weather related problems;
•	 Key equipment and infrastructure failures;
•	 Rail or port capacity constraints;
•	 Congestions and inter-system losses;
•	 Industrial action;
•	 Failure to obtain consents from third parties for access
to rail or land;
•	 Failure or delay in the construction of new rail or port capacity;
•	 Failure to meet contractual requirements;
•	 Access is removed or not granted by regulatory authority;
•	 Breach of regulatory framework; and
•	 Mismatch of below rail capacity, above rail capacity
and port capacity.
All or any of which could impair the Company’s ability
to supply coal to customers and/or increase costs,
and consequently may have a material adverse effect
on the Company’s financial position.
Environmental risks
Due to the nature of coal mining processes, and the associated
by-products, residues and tailings generated from these
processes, all operations of the Company are subject to stringent
environmental laws and regulations.
There is a risk that past, present or future operations have
not met or will not meet environmental or related regulatory
requirements and/or that the approvals or modifications the
Company is currently seeking, or may need to seek in the future,
will not be granted. If the Company is unsuccessful in these
efforts or otherwise breaches these environmental requirements,
it may incur fines or penalties, be required to curtail or cease
operations and/or be subject to increased compliance costs or
costs for rehabilitation or rectification works, which have not been
previously planned at one or more of its sites.
Environmental legislation may change in a manner that may
require compliance with additional standards, and a heightened
degree of responsibility for companies and their directors
and employees. There may also be unforeseen environmental
liabilities resulting from coal related activities, which may be
costly to remedy. In particular, the acceptable level of pollution
and the potential abandonment costs and obligations for which
the Company may become liable as a result of its activities may
be impossible to assess under the current legal framework.
Health, safety and hazardous materials risks
The Company‘s operations may substantially impact the
environment or cause exposure to hazardous materials. It will
use hazardous materials and will generate hazardous waste, and
may be subject to common law claims, damages due to natural
disasters, and other damages, as well as the investigation and
clean-up of soil, surface water, groundwater, and other media.
Such claims may arise, for example, out of current or former
activities at sites that it owns or operates.
There is also a risk that actions could be brought against
the Company, alleging adverse effects of such substances
on personal health.
Corporate Governance Statement