71
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
At the time of appointment of a new Non-Executive Director,
the key terms and conditions relevant to that person’s
appointment, the Board’s responsibilities and the Company’s
expectations of a director are set out in a letter of appointment.
The Board has established a Nomination and Remuneration
Committee to make recommendations to the Board on matters
such as succession plans for the Board, the size and composition
of the Board, potential candidates for appointment to the Board,
re-election of directors, Board induction and Board evaluation
procedures. The structure and membership of the Nomination
and Remuneration Committee is described further under
Principles two and eight.
The Board recognises that people are its most important
asset and is committed to the maintenance and promotion of
workplace diversity. Whilst traditionally, experience as a senior
executive or director of a large organisation with international
operations is a prerequisite for candidature, in accordance with
the Diversity Policy, the Board also seeks skills and experience
in the following areas:
•	 Marketing and sales;
•	 Policy and regulatory development and reform;
•	 Health, safety and environment and social responsibility; and
•	 Human resources.
In identifying candidates, the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee will consider and select nominees by reference to a
number of selection criteria including the skills, expertise and
background that add to and complement the range of skills,
expertise and background of the existing directors, the capability
of the candidate to devote the necessary time and commitment
to the role, potential conflicts of interest and independence,
and the extent to which the candidate would fill a present need
on the Board. Where appropriate, the appropriate checks are
undertaken prior to a director being appointed. The mix of skills
currently held by the Board is set out under Principle 2.
The role, rights and responsibilities and membership
requirements of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee,
together with the selection criteria for candidates for the Board,
are set out in the Nomination and Remuneration Committee
Charter which can be found within the Corporate Governance
section of the Company’s website.
Shareholder approval is required for the appointment of
directors. However, directors may appoint other directors to fill
a casual vacancy where the number of directors falls below the
constitutional minimum number of directors and in order to
comply with any applicable laws, regulations or the ASX Listing
Rules. If a director is appointed to fill a casual vacancy in these
circumstances, the approval of members must be sought at the
next general meeting.
No director may hold office without re-election beyond the third
annual general meeting (AGM) following the meeting at which
the director was last elected or re-elected. The Company provides
all material information in its possession in relation to directors
standing for election or re-election in the Notice of Meeting
provided to shareholders prior to the AGM.
To the extent that the ASX Listing Rules require an election of
directors to be held and no director would otherwise be required
under the Company’s Constitution to submit for election or
re-election at an AGM, the director who has been the longest in
office since their last election or appointment must retire at the
AGM. As between directors who were last elected or appointed
on the same day, where it is not agreed between the relevant
directors, the director to retire must be decided by lot.
The process for appointment, retirement and re-election of
directors is set out in the Company’s Constitution which can
be found within the Corporate Governance section of the
Company’s website.
Diversity
The Company recognises that people are its most important
asset and is committed to the maintenance and promotion
of workplace diversity. The Company has adopted a Diversity
Policy, approved by the Board, to actively facilitate a more diverse
and representative management and leadership structure. The
Diversity Policy is available in the Corporate Governance section
of the Company’s website.
Annually, the Board establishes measurable objectives with
the assistance of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee
with a view to progressing towards a balanced representation
of women at a Board and senior management level. Performance
against these measurable objectives are reviewed annually by the
Nomination and Remuneration Committee as part of its annual
review of the effectiveness of the Diversity Policy.