60
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
3.4 Fixed Remuneration
Fixed remuneration comprises cash salary, superannuation
and other benefits. In recognition of the Company’s financial
performance, no fixed remuneration increases were awarded in
2016. Executives receive a salary package, in the form of a FAR
package, which incorporates cash salary, superannuation benefits
and may include a provision for a car allowance, together with
certain other benefits.
Senior Executives’ level of fixed remuneration is set to provide a
base level of remuneration which is appropriate to the position
and competitive with companies in a similar industry. Each year
Executives’ FAR is reviewed by reference to the Coal Mining
Industry Remuneration Report produced by McDonald &
Company (Australasia) Pty Ltd (“McDonald Report”). Using the
McDonald Report, the Company’s Remuneration Policy targets
FAR at the 75th percentile of the relevant industry benchmark
which reflects market practice in the coal industry in Australia.
Having regard to the specific characteristics of the role, each
employment position is then assigned a Job Salary Rate (“JSR”),
and Executives are paid at between 80 percent and 120 percent
of the JSR.
Senior Executives’ superannuation benefits are paid to their
nominated superannuation fund in accordance with relevant
state and industry legislation. No Executives are entitled to a
guaranteed increase in FAR. Senior Executives may receive
certain benefits as part of their fixed remuneration including car
parking, travel allowances and relocation allowances. Executives
have some scope to determine the combination of cash (including
car allowance) and certain non-monetary benefits by which their
FAR is delivered, provided that it does not create undue cost for
the Company.
3.5 Variable remuneration
Variable remuneration is delivered through participation in the
STI Plan (as outlined in section 3.5.1) and a Special Incentive
Scheme (as outlined in section 3.5.2). Certain Executives are also
eligible to participate in a LTI Plan (as outlined in section 3.5.3).
3.5.1 Short Term Incentive Plan
Eligibility
The STI Plan applies to Executives as well as to the broader
management and employees of the Company.
Objective
The objective of the STI Plan is to reward Executives and
employees for the achievements of the Company, Business Unit
and individual goals that are aligned to the Company’s financial,
operational and strategic priorities.
Structure
For 2016 the STI Plan comprised three key components:
1.	 STI opportunity—this is expressed as a percentage of the
Executive’s FAR. The STI opportunity is reviewed annually.
A benchmarking exercise is completed against comparable
peers in listed companies, and no changes were proposed for
2016. The CEO has an agreed STI opportunity of between a
minimum of 75 percent and a maximum of 126 percent of FAR
for 2016.  The Board believes this level of STI opportunity is
reasonable and competitive for the current environment.
2.	 STI Scorecard—this consists of a number of Key Performance
Indicators (“KPIs”). For the Executives named in this report,
all KPIs are measured at the Company level. The KPIs fall
into the following categories TRIFR (Total Recordable Injury
Frequency Rate) (20 percent weighting), Environment (10
percent weighting), FOR (Free On Rail) Cash Costs (35 percent
weighting), Profitability (20 percent weighting) and Specific
Business Unit Measures (15 percent).) Details of how the
STI Scorecard is evaluated are set out below. STI scorecard
performance is assessed by the Chairman of the Executive
Committee and the Chief Executive Officer, reviewed by the
Nomination and Remuneration Committee, and approved by
the Board.
3.	 Individual Performance—this is measured by Key
Result Areas (“KRA”). These KRAs are aligned to the
Executive’s role and include areas such as special projects,
achievement of operating and capital expenditure budgets,
and achievement of growth/continuous improvement
initiatives. Based on performance against the KRAs, the
Executive receives a performance rating at the end of the year
on a scale from Exceptional to Below Standard. In the case of
the Chief Executive Officer, individual performance is assessed
by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, to be
endorsed by the Board. For all other Executives, performance
is assessed by the Chief Executive Officer and the Chair of the
Executive Committee.
Directors’ Report