33
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
The Coal Resources and Coal
Reserves statement presented
in this report was produced in
accordance with the Australasian
Code for reporting of Mineral
Resources and Ore Reserves 2012
Edition (the JORC Code).
Commodity prices and exchange
rates used to estimate the economic
viability of Coal Reserves are based on
the Yancoal long-term forecasts unless
otherwise stated.
The Coal Reserves tabulated are all held
within existing, fully permitted mining
leases, are within areas under applications
to become mining leases or are within
areas of exploration tenements detailed
in the 2016 Life of Mine Plans to become
mining leases in future applications.
Yancoal’s leases are of sufficient
duration (or convey a legal right to
renew for sufficient duration) to enable
all Coal Reserves on the leases to be
mined in accordance with current
production schedules.
The information in this report relating
to Coal Resources and Coal Reserves
are based on information compiled by
Competent Persons (as defined by the
JORC Code). All Competent Persons have
sufficient experience relevant to the style
of mineralisation and type of deposit
under consideration and to the activity
they are undertaking to qualify as a
Competent Person as defined by the
JORC Code.
The majority of the Competent Persons
listed in this report are independent
consultants. The Competent Persons
who prepared the Coal Resource and
Coal Reserve reports for Yarrabee and
the Coal Reserve reports for Austar,
Ashton and Donaldson, are full-time
employees of Yancoal Australia.
Each Competent Person consents
to the inclusion of the matters based
on their information in the form and
context in which it appears in this report.
Yancoal Australia is not aware of any new
information or data that materially affects
the information included in this report
and at the time of this report all material
assumptions and technical parameters
underpinning the estimates continue
to apply and have not materially changed.
Coal Resources and Coal Reserves are
reported in 100 percent terms (unless
otherwise stated). Coal Resources are
reported inclusive of the Coal Resources
that have been converted to Coal Reserves
(i.e. Coal Resources are not additional
to Coal Reserves).
On an attributable basis Yancoal’s group
total year end 31 December, 2016:
Measured, Indicated and Inferred Coal
Resources are 2,879Mt*
*Gloucester comprises the Stratford, Duralie and Grant & Chainey deposits.