70
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
Corporate Governance Statement
INTRODUCTION
The Company adopts an approach to corporate governance
based on international best practice and Australian law
requirements. The Board and management are committed
to corporate governance. To the extent appropriate to the scale
and nature of the Company’s business, the Company has adopted
the 3rd edition of the ASX Corporate Governance Council’s
Principles and Recommendations (ASX Recommendations).
This statement sets out the Company’s compliance with the 3rd
edition of the ASX Recommendations, and the main corporate
governance policies and practices adopted by the Company.
Principle 1: Lay solid foundations
for management and oversight
Role of the board
The Board is responsible for the overall corporate governance
of the Company including directing the affairs of the Company,
setting and monitoring the Company’s risk management strategy
and overseeing the appointment, remuneration and performance
of senior executives. The Board is committed to maximising
performance, generating appropriate levels of shareholder value
and financial return, and sustaining the growth and success
of the Company. The Board’s role and responsibilities and its
delegation of authority to standing committees and senior
executives have been formalised in a Board Charter. The Board
Charter can be found within the Corporate Governance section
of the Company’s website.
The Board Charter sets out the procedure by which the Board
collectively, and each individual director, can seek independent
professional advice at the Company’s expense.
Delegation to management
The Board delegates responsibility for the day to day
management of the Company’s affairs and implementation of
the strategy and policy initiatives set by the Board to the Chair
of the Executive Committee (CEC), the Chief Executive Officer
(CEO) and other senior executives. The Executive Committee is
a management committee comprising the CEC, CEO, the Chief
Financial Officer (CFO) and any other senior executives that
the Board resolves from time to time will be members of the
Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee Charter sets out the functions of the
Executive Committee and the duties of the CEC, CEO and CFO.
The Executive Committee Charter also provides the financial
decision authorities and appropriate approval thresholds at
different levels which have been approved by the Board.
Senior executive contracts
The Company’s senior executives are employed under
employment contracts that set out the terms of their employment.
Company secretary
The Company Secretary is accountable directly to the Board,
through the Chairman of the Board (Chairman), on all matters
to do with the proper functioning of the Board. All directors have
direct access to the Company Secretary. The Board Charter sets
out the other duties of the Company Secretary, which include
being responsible for:
•	 Ensuring compliance by the Company with the Company’s
constitution, the provisions of the Corporations Act and other
applicable laws as they relate to the Company;
•	 Providing corporate governance advice to the Board;
•	 Ensuring that the Company’s books and registers required by
the Corporations Act are established and properly maintained;
•	 Ensuring that all notices and responses are lodged with ASIC
and ASX on time; and
•	 Organising and attending shareholder meetings and directors’
meetings, including sending out notices, preparing agendas,
marshalling proxies and compiling minutes.
Nomination and appointment of directors
The Board considers that Board succession planning, and
the progressive and orderly renewal of the Company’s Board
membership, are an important part of the governance process.
The Board’s policy for the selection, appointment and
re-appointment of directors is to ensure that the Board possesses
an appropriate range of skills, experience and expertise to enable
the Board to carry out its responsibilities most effectively.
As part of this appointment and re-appointment process,
the directors consider Board renewal and succession plans
and whether the Board’s size and composition is conducive
to making appropriate decisions.