73
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
Feedback will be collected by the Chairman, or an external
facilitator, and discussed by the Board, with consideration
being given as to whether any steps should be taken to improve
performance of the Board or its committees.
Since the adoption of the Protocol in 2012, the Company carried
out three annual board performance reviews internally, and has
conducted one externally facilitated board performance review.
An externally facilitated review of the Board was carried out in
2016 (in respect of 2015) and a review of the Board was conducted
internally in 2017 (in respect of 2016), in accordance with process
disclosed above.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee considered
assessments by a number of independent bodies regarding
Boards of Australian companies and their performance. The chair
of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee reported any
material issues or findings from these evaluations to the Board.
Board committees
Each of the four standing committees of the Board conducts
an annual committee performance self-assessment to review
performance using guidelines approved by the Nomination and
Remuneration Committee. The guidelines include reviewing
the committee’s performance having regard to its role and
responsibilities as set out in its Charter; consideration as
to whether the committee’s Charter is fit for purpose; and
identification of future topics for training/education of the
committee or its individual members.
The outcomes of the performance self-assessments are reported
to the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (or to the
Board, if there are any material issues relating to the Nomination
and Remuneration Committee) for discussion and noting.
Each committee provides feedback to the Board on its own
performance, which is collected by the Chairman or an external
facilitator, and the feedback is discussed by the Board, with
consideration of whether any steps for improvement are required.
A review of the Board’s committees was conducted each of 2016
(in respect of 2015) and 2017 (in respect of 2016) in accordance
with the process disclosed above.
Individual Directors
Directors are evaluated on, amongst other things, their alignment
with the values of the Company, their commitment to their duties
and their level of financial, technical and specialist knowledge.
An annual performance review of Non-Executive Directors
is conducted by the Chairman for each Non-Executive
Director, specifically addressing the performance criteria
within the Protocol.
An annual review of the performance of the Chairman is
facilitated by the Co-Vice Chairmen who seeks input from each
director individually on the performance of the Chairman against
the competencies for the Chairman’s role approved by the Board.
The Co-Vice Chairmen collate the input in order to provide an
overview report to the Nomination and Remuneration Committee
and to the Board, as well as feedback to the Chairman.
A review of individual directors was conducted in each of 2016
(in respect of 2015) and 2017 (in respect of 2016) in accordance
with the process disclosed above.
Performance of senior executives
The CEC and the CEO review the performance of senior
executives annually against appropriate measures as part of the
Company’s performance management system for all managers
and staff.
On an annual basis, the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee and subsequently the Board formally reviews the
performance of the CEO and the CEC. The CEO’s performance is
assessed against qualitative and quantitative criteria, including
profit performance, other financial measures, safety performance
and strategic actions. The Nomination and Remuneration
Committee also undertakes an annual formal review of the
performance of other members of the Executive Committee,
based on similar criteria. The Board reviews and approves the
annual review of all the members of the Executive Committee
undertaken by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
The performance evaluation for the CEC, CEO and
senior executives took place in 2016 in accordance with
the process disclosed above and in the Remuneration Report.
The results of the performance review are disclosed in the
Remuneration Report.