117
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
(a) Past due but not impaired
As at 31 December 2016, there were no trade receivables that were past due (2015: nil).
The stamp duty refund receivable (refer to Note C7(i)) and the promissory note receivable (refer to Note C7(ii)) are subject to
ongoing discussions with the parties involved and management believe that these discussions will be concluded and the full
amount will be received within next the 12 months and therefore not impaired. The Group does not hold any collateral in relation
to these receivables. The other classes within trade and other receivables (other than the Middlemount receivable as detailed in (iii)
above and $5.8 million from WICET) do not contain impaired assets and are not past due. It is expected that these amounts will be
received when due.
(b) Foreign exchange and interest rate risk
Information about the Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk and interest rate risk in relation to trade and other receivables
is provided in Note D8.
(c) Fair value and credit risk
Due to the nature of these receivables, their carrying amount is assumed to approximate their fair value. The maximum exposure
to credit risk at the end of the reporting period is the carrying amount of each class of receivables mentioned above. Refer to Note
D8 for more information on the risk management policy of the Group and the credit quality of the Group’s trade receivables.
C8: INVENTORIES
Accounting policy
Coal stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Costs are assigned on a weighted average basis and include
direct materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of variable and fixed overheads on the basis of normal mining
capacity. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in ordinary course of business less the estimated costs of completion
and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Inventories of auxiliary materials, spare parts, small tools, and fuel expected to be used in production are stated at weighted
average cost after deducting rebated and discounts less allowance, if necessary, for obsolescence.
(a) Inventory expense
Write downs of inventories to net realisable value recognised as a provision at 31 December 2016 amounted to $0.6 million
(2015: $12.1 million). The movement in the provision has been included in “Changes in inventories of finished goods and work
in progress” in the Consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income.
31 December
2016
$M
31 December
2015
$M
Coal – at lower of cost or net realisable value
46.6
49.2
Tyres and spares – at cost
26.7
26.0
Fuel – at cost
1.3
1.0
74.6
76.2