129
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
D8: FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks:
market risk (including foreign exchange risk, price risk and
interest rate risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s
overall risk management program focuses on the unpredictability
of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse
effects on the financial performance of the Group. The Group
uses derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange
contracts to hedge certain risk exposures. Derivatives are
exclusively used for hedging purposes and not as speculative
instruments. The Group uses different methods to measure
different types of risk to which it is exposed. These methods
include sensitivity analysis in the case of foreign exchange,
interest rate risk and other price risks, and aging analysis
for credit risk.
The Group holds the following financial instruments:
(i)
Cash and cash equivalents;
(ii)
Trade and other receivables;
(iii)
Trade and other payables;
(iv)
Interest-bearing liabilities,
including bank loans and finance leases;
(v)
Available-for-sale investments;
(vi)
Royalty receivable;
(vii)	 Derivative financial instruments; and
(viii)	 Interest-bearing loan from associate.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for determining
risk management objectives and policies and risk management
is carried out by the Group Audit and Risk Management
department along with the Group Treasury department.
The Board provides written principles for overall risk
management, as well as policies covering specific areas
such as the use of derivative financial instruments to mitigate
foreign exchange risk. These derivative instruments create
an obligation or right that effectively transfers one or more
of the risks associated with an underlying financial instrument,
asset or obligation.
The overall objective of the Board is to set policies that seek
to reduce risk and volatility in financial performance without
unduly affecting competitiveness and flexibility. Further details
regarding these policies are set out below.
(a) Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as
foreign exchange rates, interest rates, securities prices, and coal
prices, will affect the Group’s income or the value of its holdings
of financial instruments.
(i) Foreign exchange risk
The Group operates entirely in Australia and its costs are
primarily denominated in its functional currency, the Australian
dollar. Export coal sales are denominated in US dollars and a
strengthening of the Australian dollar against the US dollar
has an adverse impact on earnings and cash flow settlement.
Liabilities for some plant and equipment purchases and loans are
denominated in currencies other than the Australian dollar and
a weakening of the Australian dollar against other currencies has
an adverse impact on earnings and cash flow settlement.
The hedging policy of the Group aims to protect against the
volatility of cash expenditures or reduced collection in the above
mentioned transactions as well as to reduce the volatility of profit
or loss for retranslation of US dollar denominated loans at each
period end.
Hedging through bank issued instruments
Operating foreign exchange risk that arises from firm
commitments or highly probable transactions are managed
through the use of bank issued forward foreign currency
contracts and collar option contracts. The Group hedges a
portion of contracted US dollar sales and asset purchases settled
in foreign currencies in each currency to mitigate the adverse
impact on cash flow due to the future rise or fall in Australian
dollars against the relevant currencies.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives
that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised
in Other Comprehensive Income in the hedging reserve until the
anticipated underlying transaction occurs.