53
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
DR GEOFFREY RABY
Non-Executive Director (26 June 2012–Current)
BEc (Hons), MEc and PhD (Economics)
Experience and expertise
Dr Geoffrey Raby was appointed a Director of Yancoal in 2012.
He was Australia’s Ambassador to the People’s Republic of China
from 2007 to 2011. Prior to that, he was a Deputy Secretary in the
Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT). Dr Raby has
extensive experience in international affairs and trade, having
been Australia’s Ambassador to the World Trade Organisation
(1998–2001), Australia’s APEC Ambassador (2003–2005), Head
of DFAT’s Office of Trade Negotiations and Head of the Trade
Policy Issues Division at the OECD, Paris. Between 1986 and 1991
he was Head of the Economic Section at the Australian Embassy,
Beijing. He has been the Chair of DFAT’s Audit Committee and
served as an ex officio member of the Boards of Austrade and
Export Finance and Insurance Corporation (EFIC).
Dr Geoffrey Raby holds a Bachelor of Economics, a Masters
of Economics and a Doctor of Philosophy in Economics.
Other current key directorships
Director of Oceana Gold Corporation Limited;
Director of iSentia Group Ltd.
Former directorships in last three years
Director of Fortescue Metals Group;
Chairman of SmartTrans Holding Limited;
Director of YPB Group Ltd.
Special responsibilities
Member of Audit and Risk Management Committee;
Member of Health, Safety and Environment Committee.
Interests in shares and options
None.
VINCENT O’ROURKE AM.
Non Executive Director (22 December 2009–Current)
B. Economics
Experience and expertise
Mr O’Rourke brings over 40 years of corporate and railway
industry experience spanning operations, finance and business
management to the Board of Yancoal. In 1990, Mr O’Rourke was
appointed Queensland Commissioner for Railways and was the
Chief Executive Officer of Queensland Rail (QR) from 1991 to
2000. As Chief Executive Officer of QR, Mr O’Rourke oversaw
a 10 year program of reform and modernisation including
corporatisation in 1995. He was awarded a Member of the Order
of Australia in 2000 and a Centenary Medal in 2003 for services
to the rail transport industry and QR.
Mr O’Rourke holds a Bachelor of Economics from the University
of New England. He is an Honorary Doctor of the Queensland
University of Technology and Griffith University.
Other current key directorships
Chairman of Rail Innovation Australia Pty Ltd;
Deputy Chairman of Mater Health Services Brisbane Limited;
Chairman of Holy Cross Laundry Pty Ltd;
Director of White Energy Company Limited;
Director of Queensland Museum Foundation;
Director of Yancoal SCN Limited.
Former directorships in last three years
Chairman of the Queensland Workplace Health
and Safety Board;
Director of Premier Coal Limited (resigned on 27 May 2016).
Special responsibilities
Chairman of Health, Safety and Environment Committee.
Interests in shares and options
250,000 fully paid Yancoal ordinary shares.