21
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
Working with Yancoal’s executive
and senior management teams,
the Committee helps ensure Yancoal
has the leadership, capabilities,
systems and reporting procedures
required to achieve zero harm.
No significant events were recorded at
Yancoal’s operations for 2016, with the
business continuing to improve its Total
Recordable Injury Frequency Rates
(TRIFR) and Lost Time Injury Frequency
Rates (LTIFR) over the past five years.
Yancoal’s operations share the
conviction to never compromise on
safety, making the health and safety
of its people a priority at all times.
As the Company continues to grow
its operations, Yancoal proactively
reviews and improves its safety practices,
responses and training procedures,
collaborating with internal and external
specialists to educate, communicate and
engage with its employees.
Sourcing the majority of its workforce,
contractors and service providers from
the local areas in which it operates,
Yancoal understands the important
role each mine plays in supporting
regional Australia and the future
of the resources sector.
As a key recruiter within Central
Queensland and the Hunter Valley
of New South Wales, Yancoal provides
employment, training, apprenticeship
and educational opportunities to
support the advancement of individual
careers during a time of significant
change in energy demand, technology
and legislation.
In 2016, Yancoal’s Community
Support Initiative invested more
than $445,727 into community-based
initiatives, financially supporting
targeted health, environmental,
educational and sporting initiatives
in the local and regional areas supporting
our mines.
Yancoal believes it has a responsibility
to play a proactive and beneficial role via
financial and in-kind contributions to
community-based initiatives that may
otherwise not have the funding
and opportunity to make a positive
difference in the lives of others.
Each Yancoal operation also implements
robust rehabilitation plans, working
to minimise potential impacts on the
local environment and ultimately return
completed mining areas to quality
pastoral and woodland for future use.
Leading edge sustainability practices
ensure Yancoal is instituting and
updating its water management,
land use and monitoring plans
throughout every stage of the mining
process, from prior to commencement,
until well after eventual close.
Yancoal takes its responsibility
for engaging transparently seriously,
relying upon community consultative
committees, reference groups,
newsletters, local media, community
days and site-specific websites
to keep all stakeholders informed.