79
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
External auditor
The Company’s external auditor is ShineWing Australia.
Consistent with the requirements of the Corporations Act
2001 (Cth), ShineWing Australia has a policy of partner
rotation every five years. The appointment, removal and
remuneration (not including amounts paid for special or
additional services provided by the auditor) of the auditor
require shareholder approval.
The external auditor receives all papers and minutes of the
Audit and Risk Management Committee. The external auditor
also attends the Company’s Annual General Meeting to answer
questions from shareholders relevant to the Company’s audit.
Principle 5: Make timely and balanced disclosure
The Company recognises the importance of timely and adequate
disclosure to the market, and is committed to making timely
and balanced disclosure of all material matters and to effective
communication with its shareholders and investors so as to give
them ready access to balanced and understandable information.
The Company also works together with its major shareholder,
Yanzhou, to ensure that Yanzhou can comply with its disclosure
obligations in relation to Company information, and vice versa,
Yanzhou seeks to ensure that the Company can comply with its
disclosure obligations in relation to Yanzhou’s information.
Consistent with their charters, the Audit and Risk Management
Committee, Nomination and Remuneration Committee and
Executive Committee review, to the extent reasonably practicable,
all public disclosures and statements concerning matters relevant
to their duties and responsibilities including disclosures in the
Company’s annual report and certain ASX disclosures.
The Board has put in place a Disclosure Policy to encapsulate
the disclosure obligations under the Corporations Act 2001
and the ASX Listing Rules and to set out procedures for
managing compliance with those obligations. These procedures
provide a framework for managing the disclosure of material
matters to the market to ensure accountability at Board and senior
executive level. As part of this framework, a standing agenda item
at all the Company’s Board and Executive Committee meetings
requires the directors and senior executive to consider whether
any matters at the meeting should be disclosed to the market.
The Disclosure Policy can be found within the Corporate
Governance section of the Company’s website.
A Disclosure Committee has been established to assist the
Company to meet its disclosure obligations. The Committee
plays a key role in reviewing and determining whether
information is likely to have material effect on the price or value
of the Company’s securities such that it requires disclosure to
the market. The Disclosure Committee members comprise the
CEC, CEO, CFO, Company Secretary, Investor Relations General
Manager and Group Counsel. Any information disclosed to the
market through an announcement to the ASX is also published
on the Investor section of the Company’s website.
Principle 6: Respect the rights of shareholders
Communications with shareholders
The Company has an investor relations program that
is aimed at facilitating two-way communications with investors.
The Company’s policy is to promote effective communication
with shareholders and other investors so that they understand
how to assess relevant information about the Company and its
corporate direction. The Company aims to keep shareholders,
potential investors and other stakeholders informed of all major
developments affecting the state of affairs of the Company.
The Company communicates information regularly to
shareholders, potential investors and other stakeholders by:
•	 Posting announcements on the ASX platform in accordance
with its continuous disclosure obligations and also making
these announcements available on the Company’s website;
•	 Keeping its website up to date on important information about
the Company, including its Constitution, Board and Board
Committee Charters, core corporate governance policies and
financial information about the Company; and
•	 Publishing investor presentations made to analysts
and media briefings available within the Investor section
of the Company’s website.
The Company encourages shareholders to attend and participate
in all general meetings including annual general meetings.
Shareholders are entitled to ask questions about the management
of the Company and of the auditor as to its conduct of the audit
and preparation of its reports. Any shareholders who cannot
attend any general meetings can also participate via lodgement
of their proxies. In addition, shareholders have the option of
receiving communications from and sending communications
to the Company and the Company’s share registry, Computershare
Investor Services, electronically.