110
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
C2: MINING TENEMENTS
Accounting policies
Mining tenements have a finite useful life and are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Mining tenements are amortised from the date when commercial production commences, or the date of acquisition. Amortisation
is calculated over the life of the mine on a ‘units of production’ method based on the Joint Ore Reserves Committee (“JORC”)
estimated reserves.
Changes in the annual amortisation rate resulting from changes in the remaining estimated reserves, are applied on a prospective
basis from the commencement of the next financial year. Every year the mining tenement’s carrying amount is compared to its
recoverable amount and assessed for impairment, or for possible reversals of prior year impairment. See Note C3 for further details
on the impairment of assets.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
Coal Reserves and Resources
The Group estimates its coal Resources and Reserves based
on information compiled by Competent Persons as defined
by the Australasian Code for Reporting Exploration Results,
Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves (December 2012), which
is prepared by the Joint Ore Reserves Committee (“JORC”) of
the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, Australian
Institute of Geoscientists and Minerals Council of Australia,
known as the JORC 2012 Code, and Australian Security Exchange
(“ASX”) Listing Rules 2012.
Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves are based on geological
information and technical data relating to the size, depth,
quality of coal, suitable production techniques and recovery
rates. Such an analysis requires complex geological judgements
to interpret the data. The estimation of Recoverable Reserves
is based on factors such as estimates of foreign exchange
rates, coal price, future capital requirements, rehabilitation
obligations and production costs, along with geological
assumptions and judgements made in estimating the size
and quality of the reserves.
31 December
2016
$M
31 December
2015
$M
Opening net book amount
2,084.5
2,466.2
Acquisition through business combination
25.1
Transfers from exploration and evaluation assets
100.9
Amortisation for the period
(57.8)
(64.3)
Transfer to assets classified as held for sale
(342.5)
Closing net book amount
2,127.6
2,084.5
Management forms a view of forecast sales prices based
on current and long-term historical average price trend.
As the economic assumptions used may change and as
additional geological information is produced during the
operations of a mine, estimates of reserves may change.
Additionally the amount of reserves that may actually be mined
in the future and the Group’s current reserve estimate may
vary. Such changes may impact the Group’s reported financial
position and results including:
•	 The carrying value of the exploration and evaluation assets,
mine properties, property, plant and equipment and goodwill
may be affected due to changes in estimated future cash flows;
•	 Depreciation and amortisation charges in the statement
of profit and loss and other comprehensive income may
change where such charges are determined using the units of
production method, or where the useful life of the related assets
change; and
•	 The carrying value of deferred income tax assets may change
due to changes in the judgements regarding the existence of
such assets and in estimates of the likely recovery of such assets.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
31 December 2016
C: OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES