51
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
FUQI WANG
Non-Executive Director (23 April 2015–Current), ME, EMBA
Experience and expertise
Mr Fuqi Wang is a research fellow in applied engineering
technology with an EMBA degree and Master of Engineering,
and serves as the Chief Engineer of Yanzhou.
Mr. Wang joined Yanzhou’s predecessor in 1985. In 2000,
he was appointed as the Chief Engineer of Production and
Technology Division of Yankuang Group. In 2002, he served
as the director of Production and Technique Department
of Yanzhou. In 2003, he was appointed as the Deputy Chief
Engineer and Director of Production and Technique Department
of Yanzhou. In March 2014, he was appointed as the Chief
Engineer of Yanzhou.
Mr Wang graduated from Northeastern University
and Nankai University.
Other current key directorships
Yanmei Heze Neng Hua Co., Ltd.
Former directorships in last three years
None.
Special responsibilities
Member of Health, Safety and Environment Committee;
Member of Strategy and Development Committee.
Interests in shares and options
None.
BOYUN XU
Executive Director (26 June 2012–Current), ME, EMBA
Experience and expertise
Mr Xu joined Yancoal in 2005 and held the position of Deputy
Managing Director of Yancoal until acquisition of Felix
Resources. Before the merger with Gloucester Coal Ltd,
he held the position of General Manager of Business Development
of Yancoal. In 2012, Mr Xu was appointed a Director of Yancoal
and Executive General Manager of the Australian subsidiaries
of Yancoal International (Holding) Co., Ltd. Mr Xu has over 30
years of international management and engineering experience
in the coal mining industry. Prior to joining Yancoal he served
as Deputy Chief Engineer in Yankuang Group Company Limited
in China and China Business Manager in Minarco Asia Pacific
Pty Ltd in Australia.
Mr Xu holds an EMBA degree from University of Technology,
Sydney, a Masters degree in Mining Engineering from University
of New South Wales and a Bachelor of Mining Engineering from
Shandong University of Science and Technology in China.
Other current key directorships
Director of Premier Coal Limited;
Director of Yancoal International (Sydney) Pty Ltd;
Director of Yancoal SCN Limited;
Director of Yankuang Bauxite Resources Pty Ltd.
Former directorships in last three years
None.
Special responsibilities
Member of the Executive Committee.
Interests in shares and options
None.