159
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
F7: NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS
Certain new accounting standards and interpretations have been published that are not mandatory for 31 December 2016
reporting periods and have not been early adopted by the Group. The Group’s assessment of the impact of these new standards
and interpretations is set out below.
Reference
and Title
Details of New Standard/Amendment/Interpretation
Application Date
for the Group
AASB 9
Financial Instruments
Amends the requirements for classification and measurement of financial assets. The available-for-sale
and held-to-maturity categories of financial assets in AASB 139 have been eliminated. Under AASB 9,
there are three categories of financial assets:
a) Amortised cost
b) Fair value through profit or loss
c) Fair value through other comprehensive income.
The following requirements have generally been carried forward unchanged from AASB 139 Financial
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement into AASB 9:
a) Classification and measurement of financial liabilities; and
b) Derecognition requirements for financial assets and liabilities.
However, AASB 9 requires that gains or losses on financial liabilities measured at fair value are recognised
in profit or loss, except that the effects of changes in the liability’s credit risk are recognised in other
comprehensive income.
Impact: Although the Directors anticipate that the adoption of AASB 9 may have an impact on the Group’s
financial instruments, including hedging activity, it is impracticable at this stage to provide a reasonable
estimate of such impact.
1 January 2018
AASB 16
Leases
This standard introduces a single lessee accounting model that eliminates the requirement for leases
to be classified as operating or finance leases. The main changes introduced by the new standard include:
a) Recognition of a right-to-use asset and liability for all leases (excluding short term leases with
less than 12 months of tenure an leases relating to low value assets);
b) Deprecation of right-to-use assets in-line with AASB 116 Property, plant and equipment in profit
or loss and unwinding of the liability in principal and interest components;
c) Variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate are included in the initial measurement
of the lease liability using the index or rate at the commencement date;
d) By applying a practical expedient, a lessee is permitted to elect not to separate non-lease components
and instead account all components as a lease; and
e) Additional disclosure requirements.
Impact: Although the Directors anticipate that the adoption of AASB 16 will impact the Group’s financial
statements, it is impracticable at this stage to provide a reasonable estimate of such impact.
1 January 2018
AASB 15
Revenue from Contracts with Customers
An entity will recognise revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an
amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods
or services. This means that revenue will be recognised when control of goods or services is transferred,
rather than on transfer of risks and rewards as is currently the case under AASB 118 Revenue
Impact: The Directors anticipate that the adoption of AASB 15 will be no impact on recognition of amounts
in the Group’s financial statements, there will be additional disclosures required.
1 January 2018
AASB
2014–1
Amendments to Australian Accounting Standards (Part E)
Part E of this Standard defers the application date of AASB 9: Financial Instruments (December 2010)
to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. This part also makes consequential
amendments to hedge accounting disclosures set out in AASB 7: Financial Instruments: Disclosures, and
to AASB 132: Financial Instruments: Presentation to permit irrevocable designation of “own use contracts”
as measured at fair value through profit or loss if the designation eliminates or significantly reduces an
accounting mismatch.
Impact: The Group is currently adhering to this standard and there is no material impact expected
on the Group’s financial report.
1 January 2018