83
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
Coal prices and coal demand risks
The Company generates revenue from the sale of coal.
In developing its business plan and operating budget, the
Company makes certain assumptions regarding coal prices
and demand for coal. The prices which the Company will receive
for its coal depend on numerous market factors beyond its control
and, accordingly, some underlying coal price assumptions relied
on by the Company may materially change and actual coal prices
and demand may differ materially from those expected.
The prices for coal are determined predominantly by world
markets, which are affected by numerous factors, including the
outcome of future sale contract negotiations, general economic
activity, industrial production levels, changes in foreign exchange
rates, changes in energy demand and demand for steel, changes
in the supply of seaborne coal, technological changes, changes
in production levels and events interfering with supply, changes
in international freight rates or other transportation
infrastructure and costs, the costs of other commodities and
substitutes for coal, market changes in coal quality requirements,
government regulations which restrict use of coal, and tax
impositions on the resources industry, all of which are outside
the control of the Company and may have a material adverse
impact on coal prices and demand.
Coal production risks
Improvement in the Company’s financial performance
is dependent on the Company being able to sustain or increase
coal production and decrease operating costs on a per tonne
basis. The Company’s success or failure in improving productivity
will become particularly important to the Company’s financial
performance if the coal price remains at current levels
or falls further.
The Company’s coal production can be impacted by a number
of factors, including unforeseen geological or geotechnical
issues (particularly in the Company’s underground operations),
abnormal wet weather conditions (particularly in Queensland),
unforeseen delays or complexities in installing and operating
mining longwall systems, protracted breakdown of coal handling
infrastructure and other mining equipment and rail and port
breakdowns and outages. Regulatory factors and the occurrence
of other operating risks can also limit production.
Regulatory approvals risks
The ability of the Company to meet its long term production
target profile depends on (amongst other things) the Company
being able to obtain on a timely basis, and maintain, all
necessary regulatory approvals (including any approvals
arising under applicable mining laws, environmental
regulations and other laws) for its current operations and
expansion and growth projects, including obtaining planning
approvals, land access, land owner consents and addressing
any native title issues, impacts on the environment and
objections from local communities.
There is no assurance or guarantee that the Company will
be in a position to secure any or all of the required consents,
approvals and rights necessary to maintain its current production
profile from its existing operations or to develop its growth
projects in a manner which will result in profitable mining
operations and the achievement of its long term production
targets. If these approvals (or other approvals required for the
planned production increases) are not obtained, or if conditional
or limited approvals are obtained, the economic viability of the
relevant projects may be adversely affected, which may in turn
result in the value of the relevant assets being impaired.
The Company continues to engage openly and transparently
with all State and federal Government and approval bodies,
while operating to the highest safety, environmental and
legislative standards to work towards facilitating all approvals
as required.
Estimates of Resources and Reserves and geology
The volume and quality of the coal that the Company recovers
may be less than the Resource and Reserve estimates reported to
date. Resource and Reserve estimates are expressions of judgment
based on knowledge, experience and industry practice. There are
risks associated with such estimates, including that coal mined
may be of a different quality or grade, tonnage or strip ratio from
those in the estimates and the ability to economically extract
and process the coal may not eventuate. Resource and Reserve
estimates are necessarily imprecise and depend to some extent
on interpretations and geological assumptions, coal prices, cost
assumptions, and statistical inferences which may ultimately
prove to have been unreliable.