85
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
The Company also use contractors and other third parties
for exploration, mining and other services generally, and
is reliant on a number of third parties for the success of its
current operations and for the development of its growth
projects. While this is normal for the mining and exploration
industry, problems caused by third parties may arise which
may have an impact on the performance and operations
of the Company. Any failure by counterparties to perform
their obligations may have a material adverse effect on the
Company and there can be no assurance that the Company
will be successful in attempting to enforce its contractual
rights through legal action.
Title risks
Exploring or mining for coal is generally illegal without a
tenement granted by the State Governments. The grant and
renewal of tenements is subject to a regulatory regime and each
tenement is subject to certain conditions. There is no certainty
that an application for grant or renewal of a tenement will
be granted at all or on satisfactory terms or within expected
timeframes. Further, the conditions attached to tenements may
change. The permitting rules are complex and may change over
time, making the title holder’s responsibility to comply with
the applicable requirements more onerous, more costly or even
impossible, thereby precluding or impairing continuing or future
mining operations. There is a risk that the Company may lose title
to any of its granted titles if it is unable to comply with conditions
or if the land subject to the title is required for public purposes.
There is also a risk that a tenement may not be granted from any
applications for renewals of tenements or for new tenements.
Overlapping tenement risks
Some of the Company’s mines and associated tenements adjoin
or are overlapped by petroleum tenements and adjoin other
exploration interests held by third parties. Overlapping tenements
could potentially prevent, delay or increase the cost of the future
development of the Company’s projects because the Company and
the relevant petroleum exploration licence or other exploration
licence holders could potentially seek to undertake their
respective activities on the overlapping area or the same resource
seams and in some cases the overlapping petroleum tenure
holder’s consent may be required.
Enforcement and counterparty insolvency risks
The Company has entered into contracts which are important
to the future of its businesses including (but not limited to) for
the provision of coal handling services, long term sales contracts,
debt facilities, long term leases, contract mining and the provision
of certain guarantees, indemnities and sureties.
Any failure by counterparties to perform those contracts may
have a material adverse effect on the Company and there can
be no assurance that it would be successful in enforcing any
of its contractual rights through legal action.
In addition, any insolvency of a counterparty to any of these
contracts may have a material adverse effect on the Company
and there can be no assurance that it would be successful in
enforcing any of its contractual rights through legal action or
recovering all monies owned by that counterparty (including
under any claim for damages).
Changes in government policy, regulation or legislation
The resources industry is subject to extensive legislation,
regulations and supervision by a number of federal and state
regulatory organisations.
Any future legislation and regulatory change may affect the
resources industry and may adversely affect the Company’s
financial performance and position, such as future laws that
may limit the emission of greenhouse gases or the use of coal
in power generation.
Litigation
Like all companies in the resources sector, the Company is
exposed to the risks of litigation (either as the complainant or
as the defendant), which may have a material adverse effect on
the financial position of the relevant entity. The Company could
become exposed to claims or litigation by persons alleging they
are owed fees for services, employees, regulators, competitors
or other third parties.
Exploration and development risks
There are several risks relating to coal mining exploration and
development which are common to the industry and which,
if realised, have the capacity to affect operations, production,
cash flow and financial performance of the Company.