158
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
F5: OTHER SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
(a) Foreign currency transactions
(i) Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s
entities are measured using the currency of the primary
economic environment in which the entity operates (‘the
functional currency’). The consolidated financial statements are
presented in Australian dollars, which is the Group’s functional
and presentation currency, except for Yancoal SCN Limited
which has the US dollars as its functional currency.
For the purpose of presenting these consolidated financial
statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign
operations are translated into Australian dollars using exchange
rates prevailing at the end of the reporting period. Income and
expense items are translated at the average exchange rates
for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuated significantly
during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the
dates of the transactions are used. Exchange differences arising,
if any, are recognised in other comprehensive income and
accumulated in equity.
(ii) Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional
currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the
transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from
the settlement of such transactions and from the translation
at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities
denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in profit or
loss, except when they are deferred in equity as qualifying cash
flow hedges.
Non-monetary items that are measured at fair value in a foreign
currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when
the fair value was determined. Translation differences on assets
and liabilities carried at fair value are reported as part of the fair
value gain or loss. Non-monetary items that are measured in
terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using
the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
F6: NEW AND AMENDED STANDARDS
ADOPTED BY THE GROUP
The Group was not required to change any of its accounting
policies as the result of new or revised accounting standards
which became effective for the annual reporting period
commencing on 1 January 2016. The new standards that are
applicable to for the first time for the year ended 31 December
2016 are:
•	 AASB 1057—Application of Australian Accounting Standards;
•	 AASB 2014-4—Amendments to Australian Accounting
Standards—Clarification of Acceptable Methods of
Depreciation and Amortisation;
•	 AASB 2014-9—Equity Accounting in Separate
Financial Statements;
•	 AASB 2014-10—Sale or Contribution of Assets between
An Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture;
•	 AASB 2015-1—Amendments to Australian Accounting
Standard—Annual Improvements to Australian Accounting
Standards 2012-2014 Cycle;
•	 AASB 2015-3—Amendments to Australian Accounting
Standards arising from the Withdrawal of AASB 1031
Materiality;
•	 AASB 2015-4—Amendments to Australian Accounting
Standards—Financial Reporting Requirements for Australian
Groups with a Foreign Parent;
•	 AASB 2015-5—Amendments to Australian
Accounting Standards—Investment Entities: Applying
the Consolidation Exception;
•	 AASB 2015-9—Amendments to Australian Accounting
Standards—Scope and Application Paragraphs.
These standards have introduced new disclosures for the
Annual Financial Report but did not affect the Group’s
accounting policies or any of the amounts recognised
in the financial statements.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
31 December 2016
F: OTHER INFORMATION