75
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
The primary role of the Strategy and Development Committee is to assist the Board in its oversight and review of the Company’s
strategic initiatives. The other standing Board committees referred to above are discussed further below under Principle four
(Audit and Risk Management Committee), Principle seven (Health, Safety and Environment Committee) and Principle eight
(Remuneration and Nomination Committee). The Charters of each of these standing Board committees are available within
the Corporate Governance section of the Company’s website.
The number of meetings held by each committee during 2016 and each member’s attendance at these meetings is set out in the
Directors’ Report on page 56.
An Independent Board Committee is established as and when required to manage any related party transactions. The Independent
Board Committee was constituted four times in 2016 for the purposes of considering transactions between or involving the Company
and its major shareholder, Yanzhou. In each case, the Independent Board Committee comprised at least three independent directors.
Other committees may be established by the Board as and when required. Membership of the Board committees is based on the needs
of the Company, relevant regulatory requirements, and the skills and experience of individual directors.
Committee
Purpose
Membership
Nomination and
Remuneration
Committee
The committee assists the Board of the Company by making recommendations
in relation to:
•	 Board composition and succession planning for the Board;
•	 Director remuneration (subject to any shareholder approval that is required in
accordance with the Constitution and the ASX Listing Rules) and remuneration
arrangements for the Executive Committee and any other person nominated as
such by the committee from time to time;
•	 The public reporting of remuneration for Directors and the Company’s
Executive Committee;
•	 The performance assessment of the Executive Committee;
•	 Designing company policy and regulations with regard to corporate
governance; and
•	 Diversity.
Xiyong Li – Chair
Cunliang Lai
William Randall
(minimum of three
Non-Executive Directors)
Strategy and
Development
Committee
The committee assists the Board in its oversight and review of the Company’s
strategic initiatives, including:
•	 Merger and acquisition proposals;
•	 Major capital markets transactions;
•	 Significant investment opportunities; and
•	 Proposals to dispose of significant Company assets.
Baocai Zhang – Chair
Yuxiang Wu
Fuqi Wang
Huaqiao Zhang
(minimum of three directors)