138
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
This section explains significant aspects of the Groups
structure including interests in other entities, related party
transactions, parent entity information, controlled entities
and the deed of cross guarantee.
E1: INTERESTS IN OTHER ENTITIES
Accounting policies
(i) Associates
Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant
influence but not control or joint control, generally accompanying
a shareholding of between 20 percent and 50 percent of the
voting rights. Investments in associates are accounted for using
the equity method of accounting, after initially being recognised
at cost. The Group’s investments in associates includes goodwill
identified on acquisition.
The Group’s share of its associates’ post-acquisition profits
or losses is recognised in profit or loss, and its share of
post-acquisition other comprehensive income is recognised
in other comprehensive income. The cumulative post-acquisition
movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the
investment. Dividends receivable from associates are recognised
as a reduction in the carrying amount of the investment.
(ii) Joint arrangements
A joint arrangement is a contractual arrangement whereby
two or more parties undertake economic activities under joint
control. Joint control exists only when the strategic, financial
and operational policy decisions relating to the activities of the
joint arrangement require the unanimous consent of the parties
sharing control.
A joint arrangement is either a joint operation or a joint venture.
The structure of each joint arrangement is analysed to determine
whether the joint arrangement is a joint operation or a joint
venture. The classification of a joint arrangement is dependent
on the rights and obligations of the parties to the arrangement.
Joint operations
The Group recognises its proportional right to the assets,
liabilities, revenues and expenses of joint operations and its
share of any jointly held or incurred assets, liabilities, revenues
and expenses. These have been incorporated in the financial
statements under the appropriate headings.
Joint ventures
A joint venture is structured through a separate vehicle
and the parties have rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method where
the assets and liabilities will be aggregated into one line item on
the face of the consolidated balance sheet, after adjusting for the
share of profit or loss after tax, which is shown as a separate line
item on the face of the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss
and Other Comprehensive Income, after adjusting for amounts
recognised directly in equity.
When the Group’s share of losses in a joint venture equals
or exceeds its interest in the joint venture (which includes
any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the
Group’s net investment in the joint venture), the Group does
not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations
or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint
ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in
the joint ventures. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless
the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset
transferred. Accounting policies of the joint ventures have been
changed where necessary, to ensure consistency with the policies
adopted by the Group.
(a) Joint operations
A controlled entity, Moolarben Coal Mines Pty Limited, has
an 81 percent interest in the Moolarben Joint Venture whose
principal activity is the development and operation of open-cut
and underground coal mines.
A controlled entity, Yarrabee Coal Company Pty. Ltd., has
a 50 percent interest in the Boonal Joint Venture, whose
principal activity is the provision of a coal haul road and
train load out facility.
The principal place of business for the above joint operations
is in Australia.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
31 December 2016
E: GROUP STRUCTURE