84
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
Resource and Reserve estimates are regularly revised based
on actual production experience or new information and could
therefore be expected to change. Furthermore, should the
Company encounter mineralisation or formations different
from those predicted by past drilling, sampling and similar
examinations, Resource and Reserve estimates may have to be
adjusted and mining plans, coal processing and infrastructure
may have to be altered in a way that might adversely affect their
operations. If it is determined that mining of certain Reserves
are uneconomic, this may lead to a reduction in the Company’s
aggregate Reserve estimates.
If the Company’s actual Resource and Reserve estimates are less
than current estimates, the Company’s prospects, value, business,
results of operations and financial condition may be materially
adversely affected.
Take-or-pay liabilities
Port and rail (above rail and below rail) capacity is generally
contracted via long-term take-or-pay contracts. The Company will
generally be required to pay for its contracted rail or port tonnage
irrespective of whether it is utilised. Unused port or rail capacity
can arise as a result of circumstances including insufficient
production from a given mine, a mismatch between port and rail
capacity for a mine, or an inability to transfer the used capacity
due to contractual limitations such as required consent of the
provider of the port or rail services, or because the coal must
emanate from specified source mines or be loaded onto trains
at specified load points.
Mine closure
Closure of any of the mines or other operations of the Company
before the end of their mine life (e.g. due to environmental and
/or health and safety issues), could trigger significant employee
redundancy costs, closure and rehabilitation expense and other
costs or loss of revenues. Many of these costs will also be incurred
where mines are closed at the end of their planned mine life or
placed on care and maintenance. A move to care and maintenance
has the potential to trigger significant employee redundancy
costs and a subsequent loss of revenues, as a minimal employee
presence is required for ongoing management and rehabilitation
of the mine.
If one or more of the relevant sites are closed earlier than
anticipated, the Company will be required to fund the closure
costs on an expedited basis and potentially lose revenues, which
could have an adverse financial effect. In addition, there is a risk
that claims may be made arising from environmental remediation
upon closure of one or more of their sites.
Coal supply agreements
The Company’s coal supply agreements typically require the
delivery of a fixed or minimum quantity of coal at a location, at
a time and over a period stipulated in the agreement. To the extent
that any contracted volumes cannot be delivered as agreed, the
Company may be liable to pay substantial compensation for the
resulting losses, costs and charges (including demurrage) incurred
by the buyer.
As customer contracts expire, the Company’s financial
performance may be adversely affected if it is unable to renew
those contracts or enter into replacement contracts on no less
favourable terms.
It is possible that the coal quality specifications required by
customers and the market more broadly may evolve over time
to meet import restrictions and other regulatory requirements,
technology advancements and other factors. If the Company is
unable to supply coal that meets those specifications, its financial
performance may be adversely affected.
Joint ventures and reliance on third parties
The Company holds a number of joint venture interests,
including interests in the Middlemount and Moolarben mines,
PWCS, NCIG and WICET, with other parties. Decision making,
management, marketing and other key aspects of each joint
venture are regulated by agreements between the relevant
joint venture participants.
The Company cannot control the actions of third party joint
venture participants, and therefore cannot guarantee that joint
ventures will be operated or managed in accordance with the
preferred direction or strategy of the Company. There is a risk
that the veto rights of, or consents required from, the joint venture
partners will prevent the business and assets of a joint venture
from being developed, operated and managed in accordance
with that preferred direction or strategy.
Corporate Governance Statement