113
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
C4: EXPLORATION AND EVALUATION ASSETS
Accounting policy
Exploration and evaluation expenditure incurred is
accumulated in respect of each separately identifiable area
of interest which is at the individual exploration permit or
licence level. These costs are only carried forward where
the right of tenure for the area of interest is current and to
the extent that they are expected to be recouped through
successful development and commercial exploitation, or
alternatively, sale of the area, or where activities in the
area have not yet reached a stage which permits reasonable
assessment of the existence of economically recoverable
reserves and active and significant operations in, or in
relation to, the area of interest are continuing.
Exploration and evaluation assets acquired in a business
combination are recognised at their fair value at the
acquisition date. The carrying amount of exploration and
evaluation assets are assessed for impairment when facts
or circumstances suggest the carrying amount of the assets
may exceed their recoverable amount. A regular review
is undertaken for each area of interest to determine the
appropriateness of continuing to carry forward costs in
relation to each area of interest. Accumulated costs in relation
to an abandoned area are written off in full in the period in
which the decision to abandon the area is made. Once the
technical feasibility and commercial viability of the extraction
of mineral resources in an area of interest are demonstrable,
the exploration and evaluation assets attributable to that
area of interest are first tested for impairment and then
reclassified to mining tenements.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The application of the Group’s accounting policy for
exploration and evaluation expenditure requires judgement
in determining whether it is likely that future economic
benefits are likely, which may be based on assumptions about
future events or circumstances. Estimates and assumptions
may change if new information becomes available. If after
expenditure is capitalised information becomes available
suggesting that the recovery of expenditure is unlikely,
the amount capitalised is written off in the Consolidated
Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income
in the period when the new information becomes available.
C3: IMPAIRMENT OF ASSETS (CONTINUED)
(b) Assessment of fair value (continued)
Based on the above assumptions at 31 December 2016 the
recoverable amount is determined to be above book value
for all CGU’s resulting in no further impairment.
Impairment provisions recorded as at 31 December 2016
are $104.5 million for Moolarben and $73.8 million for
Stratford and Duralie. Moolarben and Stratford and Duralie
are both included in the NSW region CGU. Management
may consider reversals of the impairment provision
previously recognised if there is either an increase in the
average long term real revenue over the life of the mine
due to either an increase in USD coal prices, or a further
weakening of the AUD/USD foreign exchange rate or a
combination of both, or further reductions in the current
and life of mine operating costs, capital expenditure
requirements, or an increase in the reserves.
In determining the value assigned to each key assumption,
management has used: external sources of information;
the expertise of external consultants; as well as the
experience of experts within the Group to validate entity
specific assumptions such as coal reserves and resources.
Additionally various sensitivities have been determined
and considered with respect to each of the key assumptions,
further supporting the above fair value conclusions.
(c) Key sensitivity
The most sensitive input in the fair value model is forecast
revenue, which is primarily dependent on estimated future
coal prices and the AUD/USD forecast exchange rate.
If coal prices were -10 percent LOM the recoverable amount
would exceed book value for all CGUs. If the AUD/USD
long term forecast exchange rate was $0.80 the recoverable
amount would exceed book value for all CGUs.
Goodwill
The Yarrabee goodwill was not subject to an impairment
charge as the recoverable amount is greater than the
carrying value for this CGU.