74
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
Principle 2: Structure the Board to add value
Structure of the board
Currently, the Board comprises Xiyong Li, Cunliang Lai, Baocai
Zhang, Yuxiang Wu, Boyun Xu, William Randall, Geoffrey Raby,
Gregory Fletcher, Vincent O’Rourke AM, Huaqiao Zhang and
Fuqi Wang.
The skills, experience and expertise of each director and the
period that each director has held office is disclosed in the
Information on directors in the Directors’ Report, on page 49.
The Constitution provides that there will be a minimum
of four and a maximum of 11 directors of the Company,
unless the Company resolves otherwise at a general meeting.
Chairman of the board
The current Chairman, Xiyong Li, was nominated by the
Company’s major shareholder, Yanzhou. The Chairman
leads the Board and is responsible for the efficient
organisation and conduct of the Board’s functioning.
The Chairman ensures that directors have the opportunity
to contribute to Board deliberations.
The Chairman regularly communicates with the CEC and CEO
to review key issues and performance trends. The Chairman,
together with the Co-Vice Chairmen, Cunliang Lai and Baocai
Zhang, also represent the Company in the wider community.
Board committees
The Board may from time to time establish appropriate
committees to assist in the discharge of its responsibilities.
The Board has established the following standing
Board committees:
•	 Audit and Risk Management Committee;
•	 Health, Safety and Environment Committee;
•	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee; and
•	 Strategy and Development Committee.
These Board committees review matters on behalf of the Board
and, as set out in the relevant Charter:
•	 Refer matters to the Board for a decision,
with a recommendation from the committee; or
•	 Determine matters (where the committee acts with delegated
authority), which the committee then reports to the Board.
The purpose of each of the board committees is outlined below.
Corporate Governance Statement
Committee
Purpose
Membership
Audit and Risk
Management
Committee
The committee’s objectives are to:
•	 Help the Board in relation to the reporting of financial information.
•	 Advise on the appropriate application and amendment of accounting policies;
•	 Make evaluations and recommendations
to the shareholders of the Company regarding the external auditor;
•	 Recommend to the Board the remuneration of the external auditor for shareholder
approval as required in accordance with the Constitution;
•	 Provide a link between the Board and the external auditor and management;
•	 Ensure that the Board, Directors and management are aware of material risks
facing the business; and
•	 Ensure the systems in place to identify, monitor and assess risk are appropriate
and operating effectively.
Gregory Fletcher – Chair
Yuxiang Wu
Geoffrey Raby
(minimum of three
Non-Executive Directors,
a majority of whom
are independent)
Health, Safety
and Environment
Committee
The committee assists the Board to:
•	 Fulfil its responsibilities in relation to the health, safety and environment
(collectively HSE) matters arising out of the activities of the Company;
•	 Consider, assess and monitor whether or not the Company has in place the
appropriate policies, standards, systems and resources required to meet the
Company’s HSE commitments; and
•	 Provide necessary focus and guidance on HSE matters across the Company.
Vincent O’Rourke AM – Chair
Geoffrey Raby
Fuqi Wang
(minimum of three directors)