148
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
31 December 2016
E: GROUP STRUCTURE
E3: PARENT ENTITY FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Accounting policy
(a) Investments in subsidiaries, associates
and joint arrangements
Investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements
are accounted for at cost less any impairment in the financial
statements of Yancoal Australia Ltd. Dividends received
from associates are recognised in the parent entity’s profit
or loss, rather than being deducted from the carrying amount
of these investments.
(b) Tax consolidation legislation
Yancoal Australia Ltd and its wholly-owned Australian controlled
entities have implemented the tax consolidation legislation.
The head entity, Yancoal Australia Ltd, and the entities in the tax
consolidated group account for their own current and deferred tax
amounts. These tax amounts are measured as if each entity in the
tax consolidated group continues to be a stand alone taxpayer in its
own right.
In addition to its own current and deferred tax amounts, Yancoal
Australia Ltd also recognises the current tax liabilities (or assets)
and the deferred tax assets arising from unused tax losses and
unused tax credits assumed from controlled entities in the tax
consolidated group.
The entities have also entered into a tax funding agreement
under which the wholly-owned entities fully compensate
Yancoal Australia Ltd for any current tax payable assumed and
are compensated by Yancoal Australia Ltd for any current tax
receivable and deferred tax assets relating to unused tax losses or
unused tax credits that are transferred to Yancoal Australia Ltd
under the tax consolidation legislation as loans between entities.
The funding amounts are determined by reference to the amounts
recognised in the wholly-owned entities’ financial statements.
The amounts receivable/payable under the tax funding agreement
are due upon receipt of the funding advice from the head entity,
which is issued as soon as practicable after the end of each financial
year. The head entity may also require payment of interim funding
amounts to assist with its obligations to pay tax instalments.
Assets or liabilities arising under tax funding agreements with
the tax consolidated entities are recognised as current amounts
receivable from or payable to other entities in the Group.
Any difference between the amounts assumed and amounts
receivable or payable under the tax funding agreement are
recognised as a contribution to (or distribution from) wholly
owned tax consolidated entities.