99
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
31 December
2016
$M
31 December
2016
$M
Operating EBIT
523
(200.8)
Finance costs
(209.1)
(161.7)
Remeasurement of royalty receivable
(6.4)
2.4
Fair value losses recycled from hedge reserve—USD loans
(133.3)
Stamp duty expensed
(12.2)
Transaction costs
(3.1)
Gain on acquisition of interest in joint operation and subsidiaries
6.3
Loss before income tax from continuing operations
(311.8)
(353.8)
(ii) Operating EBIT
The Executive Committee assesses the performance of the operating segments based on a measure of Operating EBIT.
This measure excludes the effects of non-recurring expenditure from the operating segments such as restructuring costs,
business combination related expenses and significant impairments of cash-generating units. Furthermore, the measure
excludes the effects of fair value re-measurements and foreign exchange gains/(losses) on interest-bearing liabilities.
Interest income and expense are not allocated to the NSW and QLD segments, as this type of activity is driven by the
corporate function, which manages the cash position of the Group.
A reconciliation of Operating EBIT to loss before income tax from continuing operations is provided as follows:
(iii) Segment capitalised expenditure
Amounts with respect to capital expenditure are measured in a manner consistent with that of the financial statements.
Reportable segment’s capital expenditure is set out in Note B1(a). All segment assets are located in Australia.
(iv) Segment liabilities
A measure of total liabilities for reportable segments are not provided to the Executive Committee. The Executive Committee
reviews the liabilities of the Group at a consolidated level.
B2: REVENUE
Accounting policies
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable. Amounts disclosed as revenue are net of returns,
trade allowances, rebates and amounts collected on behalf of third parties.
The Group recognises revenue when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured and it is probable that future economic
benefits will flow to the entity. Revenue is recognised in the profit or loss as follows:
(i) Sale of coal
Revenue from the sale of coal is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed
to the buyer and can be measured reliably. Risks and rewards are considered passed to the buyer at the time of delivery,
usually on a Free On Board (“FOB”) basis. On occasion the sale of coal is recognised as the ship pulls into harbour
on a Free Alongside Ship (“FAS”) basis.