11
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
Yancoal achieved a strong full year
production result of total ROM coal
production of 26.2Mt (21.2Mt equity
share) for the year (2015: 20.8Mt equity
share) and saleable coal production of
19.8Mt (16.0Mt equity share) for the year
(2015: 15.2Mt equity share).
Responding rapidly and strategically to
increased market demand and global coal
market price improvements in the second
half of the year, Yancoal achieved a total
production result well above its previously
published operational guidance of 13.0Mt
saleable coal (equity share).
Importantly, I am very pleased to
advise we achieved such production
gains without any significant injuries.
The protection of our people remains
paramount in all actions and at all times.
As we progress our operations,
we also remain committed to managing
all potential environmental impacts
and returning our former mining areas
to native woodland and pastoral areas
for future use.
Further to the reporting period,
on 24 January 2017 we announced
Yancoal has entered into a binding
agreement to acquire 100 percent of the
shares in Coal & Allied Industries Limited
from wholly-owned subsidiaries of Rio
Tinto Limited for US$2.45 billion in
completion and deferred cash payments,
plus a coal price linked royalty.
This is a transformative and exciting
acquisition for Yancoal shareholders
and will form the basis for our future
growth and success as Australia’s
largest pure-play coal company.
The substantial cash flows from Coal
& Allied’s assets, combined with the
anticipated synergies and proposed equity
raising will materially strengthen Yancoal’s
balance sheet.
The transaction is expected to complete
in the third quarter of 2017 and
has the support of Yancoal’s majority
shareholder, Yanzhou Coal Mining
Co Ltd and Yanzhou’s 56 percent
shareholder, Yankuang Group Co Ltd.
With the financial commitment of our
major shareholders, we remain resolute
in our determination to see Yancoal
Australia succeed.
Xiyong Li
Chairman of the Board