95
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
(vii) Impact of standards issued but not yet applied by the group
Australian Accounting Standards and Interpretations issued but
not yet applicable for the year ended 31 December 2016 that not
been applied by the Group are disclosed in Note F7.
(viii) Critical accounting estimates
The preparation of financial statements requires the use
of certain critical accounting estimates that involve a higher
degree of judgement or complexity. It also requires management
to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s
accounting policies.
The Directors evaluate estimates and judgements incorporated
into these financial statements based on historical knowledge
and best available current information. Estimates assume
a reasonable expectation of future events and are based on
current trends and economic data, obtained both externally
and within the Company.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition,
seldom equal the related actual results.
Details of critical accounting estimates and judgements can
be found in the notes to which they relate and include income
taxes B6, mining tenements C2, impairment of assets C3,
exploration and evaluation assets C4, royalty receivable C9
and provisions C10.
(ix) Going concern
For the year ended 31 December 2016, the Group had a loss
after income tax of $227.1 million (31 December 2015: loss after
income tax of $291.2 million) from continuing operations.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern
basis, which contemplates the continuation of normal business
operations and the realisation of assets and settlement of
liabilities in the normal course of business. The Directors have
considered and noted the following with regards to the ability
of the Group to continue as a going concern:
(i)	 At 31 December 2016, the Group has a cash balance
of $190.3 million;
(ii)	 At 31 December 2016, the Group has surplus net current
assets of $240.9 million;
(iii) The Directors of Yanzhou Coal Mining Company Limited
(“Yanzhou”) have provided financial support in the form
of a A$1.4 billion facility (US$681.5 million drawn) to support
the on-going operations and the expansion of the Group
to enable it to pay its debts as and when they fall due, and
a US$807 million facility (US$136.0 million drawn) for
the seven percent coupon distribution of the Subordinated
Capital Notes in the first five years;
(iv) The Directors of Yanzhou have provided a letter of support
whereby unless revoked by giving not less than 24 month’s
notice, for so long as Yanzhou owns at least 51 percent of the
shares of Yancoal, Yanzhou will ensure that Yancoal continues
to operate so that it remains solvent.
On the basis of these factors, the Directors believe that the going
concern basis of preparation is appropriate and the Group will
be able to repay its debts as and when they fall due. In the event
that the Group cannot continue as a going concern, it may not
realise its assets and settle its liabilities in the normal course of
operations and at the amounts stated in the financial statements.