88
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
A status report on the execution of the plan, including
current findings and actions is provided to the Audit and
Risk Management Committee at each quarterly meeting.
Any material findings are reported to the Board.
The Audit and Risk Management Committee receives a report
on key issues and subsequently corrective actions are monitored,
reviewed and reported.
Health, safety and environment compliance
The Company has adopted policies to comply with occupational
health, safety, environment and other laws. The Board has
approved a Health, Safety and Environment Policy which
applies across the Company. In addition, each mine site
has its own health, safety and environmental policies
and procedures to deal with their particular health, safety
and environmental issues. The Board has established a Health,
Safety and Environment Committee to assist it in overseeing
the Company’s health, safety and environmental responsibilities.
In accordance with its charter, this committee has at least three
members. The members of this committee are Vincent O’Rourke
(chair of the committee), Geoffrey Raby and Fuqi Wang.
It is intended the committee meets at least four times per year,
or as frequently as required. The committee meetings are held
at one of the Company’s mine sites, whenever possible, to receive
feedback from the health, safety and environment forum held at
the mine site and to address any mine specific health, safety and
environment issues.
Principle 8: Remunerate fairly and responsibly
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
The Board has established a Nomination and Remuneration
Committee. In accordance with its Charter, this committee
currently has three members, Xiyong Li (chair of the committee),
Cunliang Lai and William Randall. A majority of the committee
and the chair of the committee is non-independent as Xiyong Li
and Cunliang Lai are not independent directors of the Company.
However, the Board considers them appropriate members, and
in the case of Xiyong Li, an appropriate chair of this committee,
due to their skill set, experience and seniority, and that the
overall composition of the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee is appropriate.
The committee members are Non-Executive Directors who are
not remunerated by the Company for their roles as directors or
committee members. The purpose of the committee is outlined
in the Board Committees section above.
The committee makes recommendations to the Board to achieve
Company remuneration structures that are equitable and aligned
with the long-term interests of the Company and its shareholders,
to attract and retain skilled employees, to structure short and
long term incentives that are challenging and linked to creation
of sustainable returns and to ensure any termination benefits
are justifiable and appropriate.
The committee has the necessary power and resources to meet
its responsibilities under its charter, including rights of access
to management, auditors and external advisers. It is intended
that the committee will meet at least once per year, or as
frequently as required.
Corporate Governance Statement