58
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
TABLE 1: Details of Key Management Personnel (Continued)
Name
Position
Time in Role
Executive Directors
Baocai Zhang
Director, Co-Vice Chairman of the Board;
Chair of the Strategy and Development Committee;
Chair of the Executive Committee (“CEC”).
Full year
Boyun Xu
Executive Director;
Executive General Manager—Australian subsidiaries of Yancoal International (Holding) Co., Ltd;
Member of the Executive Committee.
Full year
Senior Executives
Reinhold Schmidt
Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”)
Full year
Lei Zhang
Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”)
Full year
Together, the Executive Directors and Senior Executives
are referred to as “Executives” in this report.
2. REMUNERATION PRINCIPLES AND FRAMEWORK
The Company’s governing principles for remuneration are:
•	 To ensure remuneration is equitable, aligned with the long term
interests of the Company and its shareholders and complies
with relevant Company policies, including the Diversity Policy;
•	 To provide market competitive remuneration and conditions to
attract and retain skilled and motivated employees;
•	 To structure short and long term incentives that are challenging
to create sustainable returns and to support the achievement of
the Company’s strategies and objectives; and
•	 To reward based on performance, in particular acknowledging
the contribution of outstanding performers.
2.1 Remuneration governance framework
Consistent with its Board Charter, the Board oversees the
appointment, remuneration and performance of all Key
Management Personnel (“KMP”) other than Directors and,
other members of the Executive Committee. On these issues,
the Board receives recommendations from the Nomination
and Remuneration Committee.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee’s objective
is to assist the Board by making recommendations in relation to:
•	 Board composition and succession planning for the Board;
•	 Remuneration levels and structure for KMP, and other members
of the Executive Committee as appointed from time to time;
•	 The public reporting of remuneration for KMP, and other
members of the Executive Committee;
•	 The performance assessment of the Executive Committee;
•	 Designing Company remuneration policy and regulations
with regard to corporate governance; and
•	 Diversity.
It had been intended to review the Long Term Incentive Plan
(“LTIP”) during 2016, however due to more pressing priorities
the review has been postponed until 2017. As Yancoal stabilises
and develops a sustainable business model to be a major and
competitive force in the mining sector in Australia it will be
important to consider an appropriate employee long term
incentive scheme for the company. It is well recognised that long
term incentive schemes for employees of the company can drive
long term positive value for the Shareholders. Having a LTIP
for employees tends to lead to better overall performance by the
company which in turn incentivises all employees of the company.
We intend to explore and develop an appropriate LTIP proposal
for Senior Yancoal Employees for consideration of the Board.
This will be proposed via the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee in 2017.
Directors’ Report