72
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
Corporate Governance Statement
The measurable objectives adopted for 2016 and the Company’s performance against the measurable objectives
are outlined in the table below:
Objective
Performance
1.	 To increase employee awareness
and understanding of the importance
of diversity by implementing training
on the Company’s Diversity Policy
and Workplace Behaviour and
Anti-Discrimination Policy;
The Company ran training sessions on site in 2016 on the Code of Conduct and Workplace
Bullying and Harassment. These sessions were aimed at promoting a bullying and harassment
free environment, encouraging all employees to speak up about incidents and to ensure that
the Company’s culture is aligned to Yancoal values and behaviours.
Employees across the organisation have access to the Company’s Code of Conduct
via the Company intranet and are reminded of this via inductions, crew talks and as relevant
issues arise.
2.	 To target a diverse group
of candidates with recruitment
and selection procedures that are
merit-based and non-discriminatory;
Across the Yancoal group, merit-based, non-discriminatory practices are adhered to in the
recruitment of new employees.
3.	 To ensure our managers
are adept recruiters, retainers and
motivators of our diverse workplace.
Our Human Resources team is actively involved with management in the process of recruiting
new employees, including being involved in interviews of potential employers, coaching and
mentoring on targeted selection techniques and merit-based selection, as well as ensuring
general diversity awareness with regards to candidates.
The “Yancoal Way” continues to be rolled out across the Group. The message of continuous
improvement and ‘blue bus’ thinking is promoted during recruitment, induction and performance
reviews to promote a culture that encourages engagement, diversity and continuous learning.
Proportion of women in the company
Gender has been identified as a key area of focus for
the Company. On an annual basis, the Nomination and
Remuneration Committee reviews the proportion of women
employed by the Company and submits a report to the Board
outlining its findings. Details regarding the proportion of men
and women throughout the organisation are set out below.
During 2016, the proportion of women who were directly
employed by the Company as a whole was 10 percent:
171 Full-time, five Part-time and 10 Casual, a decrease
of 1.0 percent from 2015. The proportion of women in senior
management roles (being roles which directly report to the
CEO or CEC) within the Company during 2016 was eight
percent: Women held one of 12 senior management roles
within the Company.
There are no women on the Company’s Board.
Performance of the Board, its committees
and individual directors
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee oversees an
annual evaluation process for the Board, its committees and each
director based on the Board Performance Evaluation Protocol
(Protocol) adopted and approved by the Board in 2012.
The Board
Periodically, a review of the structure and operation of the Board,
the skills and characteristics required by the Board to maximise
its effectiveness and whether the mix of skills, experience
and expertise and the Board’s practices and procedures are
appropriate for the present and future needs of the Company
is conducted. This evaluation of performance of the Board may
be conducted with the assistance of an external facilitator.
As set out in the Board Charter, the review of the Board involves
directors providing written feedback on the Board’s performance
to the Chairman or to an external facilitator, which in turn is
discussed by the Board, with consideration of whether any
steps for improvement are required.
It is expected that externally facilitated reviews will occur
approximately every three years. The independent external
facilitator will seek input from each of the Directors and certain
members of senior management in relation to the performance
of the Board against a set of agreed criteria.
Once an externally facilitated review occurs, the progress
against any recommendations from the most recent externally
facilitated review, together with any new issues, will be
considered internally. Feedback from each director against a
set of agreed criteria will be collected by the Chairman or the
external facilitator. The CEC and CEO will also provide feedback
from senior executives in connection with any issues that may
be relevant in the context of the Board performance review.