112
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
C3: IMPAIRMENT OF ASSETS (CONTINUED)
(a) CGU assessment
The Group operates on a regional basis within NSW and as such the NSW mines are considered to be one CGU. The NSW regional
CGU comprises the open cut mines Moolarben and Stratford/Duralie. Yarrabee and Middlemount are considered separate CGU’s due
to location and ownership structure.
(b) Assessment of fair value
Each CGU’s fair value less costs of disposal has been determined using a discounted cash flow model over the expected
life on mine (10–25 years). The fair value model adopted has been categorised as level three in the fair value hierarchy.
The key assumptions in the model include:
Key Assumptions
Description
Coal prices
The Group’s cash flow forecasts are based on estimates of future coal prices, which assume
benchmark prices will revert to the group’s assessment of the long term real coal prices of USD
66–USD 100 per tonne (2015: USD 55–USD 109 per tonne) for thermal and USD 104–USD
165 per tonne (2015: USD 91–USD 166 per tonne) for metallurgical coal.
The Group receives long term forecast coal price data from multiple external sources
when determining its benchmark coal price forecasts and then makes adjustments
for specific coal qualities.
For both thermal and metallurgical coal the Group’s forecast coal price is within
the range of external price forecasts.
Foreign exchange rates
The long term AUD/USD forecast exchange rate of $0.73 (2015: $0.73) is based on external
sources. The year-end AUD/USD exchange rate was $0.72 per the Reserve Bank of Australia.
Production and capital costs
Production and capital costs are based on the Group’s estimate of forecast geological conditions,
stage of existing plant and equipment and future production levels.
This information is obtained from internally maintained budgets, the five year business plan,
life of mine models, life of mine plans, JORC reports, and project evaluations performed by the
Group in its ordinary course of business.
Coal Reserves and Resources
See discussion at Note C2 Mining tenements for how the coal reserves and resources
are determined.
Discount rate
The Group has applied a post-tax discount rate of 10.5 percent (2015: 10.5 percent) to discount
the forecast future attributable post-tax cash flows.
The post-tax discount rate applied to the future cash flow forecasts represents an estimate
of the rate the market would apply having regard to the time value of money and the risks specific
to the asset for which the future cash flow estimates have not been adjusted.
This rate is also consistent with the Group’s five year business plan, life of mine models
and project evaluations performed in ordinary course of business.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
31 December 2016
C: OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES