140
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
E1: INTERESTS IN OTHER ENTITIES (CONTINUED)
(i) Investment in associates (continued)
While Watagan is deconsolidated for accounting purposes,
as a result of the Group’s ongoing 100 percent equity ownership
it remains within the Group’s tax consolidated group.
The Group’s ongoing involvement with Watagan together
with the Bond Subscription Agreement, the Watagan Agreements
include a:
•	 10 year Management and Mine Services Agreement appointing
(i)Yancoal as the exclusive provider of management services
(being back office support functions) to the Watagan group;
and (ii) a 100 percent owned Yancoal subsidiary as the exclusive
provider of all mining management services (being all work
directly concerned with the management of the operations
of the three mines) to the Watagan group; and
•	 10 year Marketing and Logistics Representation and Logistics
Agreement appointing Yancoal as (i) the sole and exclusive
marketing and logistics representative of the Watagan group
for the promotion, marketing, sale, transportation and handling
of all saleable coal produced from the three mines and the
purchase of any coal for the Watagan group from third parties;
and (ii) the sole and exclusive provider of infrastructure
services and representative of the Watagan group in relation
to management of the port and rail access and rail haulage
contracts in relation to the three mines.
These agreements can be terminated without cause by either
party subject to certain termination payments.
Given the Group maintains one seat on the Watagan board
and has ongoing involvement under the terms of the Watagan
Agreements, the Group was determined to have significant
influence over Watagan. As a result, the Group equity accounts
its 100 percent equity interest from 31 March 2016. The Group
will account for the $1,363.4 million loan from Watagan
consistent with its accounting policy for financial assets.
Accordingly this loan will be subject to impairment testing when
there is objective evidence that the loan is impaired. A guarantee
has been provided by Yankuang, the ultimate parent entity of
Yancoal, to indemnify Yancoal for any amounts due and payable
under the loan which are not paid by Watagan.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
31 December 2016
E: GROUP STRUCTURE
The assessment of control is performed at a point in time.
Accordingly, at the end of the term of the Bond Subscription
Agreement in 2025, or earlier if power over Watagan is
determined to pass back to the Group, the Group would
reconsolidate Watagan’s results and financial position from
the point control is regained, and this re-acquisition would be
treated as a business combination. Additionally, the Bondholders
have a put option that allows them to put the issued debt bonds
to Yankuang at approximately years three, five, seven, and nine
of the bond term, or on an event of default after year three.
Exercise of this put option would also result in the Group
regaining control of Watagan. The assessment of control
is considered a significant judgement.
Summarised financial information of associates
The information below reflects the Group’s share of the
results of its principal associates and the aggregated assets and
liabilities. They have been amended to reflect adjustments made
by the Group when using the equity method, including fair value
adjustments and modifications for differences in accounting
policy. The 31 December 2015 balances presented for Watagan
are the consolidated book value of the three mines disclosed
as Assets Classified as Held for Sale.