52
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
WILLIAM RANDALL
Non-Executive Director (26 June 2012–Current), BBus
Experience and expertise
Mr Randall started his career with Noble Group in Australia
in 1997, transferring to Asia in 1999 where he established Noble
Group Limited’s coal operations, mining and supply chain
management businesses. He served as a Director of Noble Energy
Inc in 2001, before being appointed Global Head of Coal and
Coke in 2006 and became a member of the Noble Group internal
management board in 2008. Mr Randall subsequently assumed
the title of Head of Hard Commodities in 2012. He became an
Executive Director of Noble Group Limited in February 2012
prior to which he was Head of Energy Coal Carbon Complex.
Mr Randall was appointed a Director of Yancoal after the merger
of Yancoal and Gloucester Coal Ltd in June 2012.
Mr Randall holds a Bachelor degree in Business from the
Australian Catholic University, majoring in international
marketing and finance.
Other current key directorships
Director of Noble Group Limited;
Director of various subsidiaries of Noble Group
Limited Subsidiaries;
Former directorships in last three years
Director of Blackwood Corporation Limited;
Alternate Director of East Energy Resources Limited;
Alternate Director of Cockatoo Coal Limited.
Special responsibilities
Member of Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
Interests in shares and options
None.
GREGORY FLETCHER
Non-Executive Director (26 June 2012–Current), BCom, CA
Experience and expertise
Mr Fletcher was a Director of Gloucester Coal Ltd from June
2009. He was appointed a Director of Yancoal after the merger
of Yancoal and Gloucester Coal Ltd in June 2012. Previously,
Mr Fletcher was a senior partner with a Big 4 Accounting Firm
where he specialised in external and internal audits and risk
management. He provided professional services to some of
Australia’s largest listed corporations. Since 2009 Mr Fletcher
has taken on Board and Audit Committee roles.
Mr Fletcher holds a Bachelor of Commerce
and he is a Chartered Accountant.
Other current key directorships
Chairman of SMEG Australia Pty Ltd;
Director of Yancoal SCN Limited;
Director of Saunders International Limited;
Director of TAFE NSW and Member of the Audit
and Risk Committee;
Chair, Audit and Risk Committee, Roads & Maritime Services;
Member of Audit and Risk Committee, Railcorp;
Member of NSW Auditor General’s Audit and Risk Committee;
Member of Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee, Sydney;
Olympic Park Authority.
Former directorships in last three years
Director of WDS Limited.
Special responsibilities
Chairman of Audit and Risk Management Committee;
Chairman of the Independent Board Committee.
Interests in shares and options
1,000 full paid Yancoal ordinary shares;
24 Subordinated Capital Notes issued by Yancoal SCN Limited.
Directors’ Report