77
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
Although as a nominee of Yanzhou, Xiyong Li, the Chairman
is not considered independent by the independence standard
(as above), the Board considers that this is an appropriate
reflection of Yanzhou’s majority shareholding in the Company.
While a majority of the directors are associated with Yanzhou,
this is considered appropriate in light of Yanzhou’s major
shareholding in the Company.
William Randall is an executive director of Noble Group
Limited (a substantial shareholder and material customer
of the Company). The Board considers that this relationship
does not materially interfere with, nor is perceived to interfere
with, the independent exercise of Mr Randall’s judgement
and that he is able to fulfil the role of independent director
for the purpose of the ASX Recommendations. Accordingly,
whilst Mr Randall has a relationship with the Company
which falls within the items listed in Box 2.3 of the ASX
Recommendations, the Board considers William Randall to be
an independent Non-Executive Director. Where appropriate,
Mr Randall stands aside from decision making where conflicts
of interest may arise, and in those circumstances does not
participate in Independent Board Committees.
Board skills matrix
The table below sets out the skills and experience
that are currently represented on the Board.
Induction and professional development
Upon appointment, directors are provided with an information
pack containing a letter of appointment setting out the Company’s
expectations, directors’ duties and the terms and conditions
of their appointment, and other materials containing information
about the Company including the Company’s Constitution,
charters and policies to support the induction of directors
to the Board.
Directors also participate in continuing education
or development programs arranged for them, including,
for example, training on director’s duties and developments
in workplace health and safety law.
The Company Secretary supports directors by providing access
to information in appropriate form where requested.
Principle 3: Act ethically and responsibly
Conduct and ethics
The Board policy is that directors, employees and contractors
must observe both the letter and spirit of the law, and adhere
to the highest standards of business conduct. The Company
has adopted a formal Code of Conduct and other guidelines
and policies which are approved by the Board that set out
legal and ethical standards for the Company’s directors and
employees, including a Conflicts of Interests and Related
Party Transactions Policy.
The Code of Conduct and these other guidelines and policies
guide the directors, the CEO, senior executives, and employees
generally as to the practices necessary to maintain confidence
in the Company’s integrity and as to the responsibility and
accountability of individuals for reporting, and investigating
reports of, unethical practices. The Code of Conduct and these
other guidelines and policies also guide compliance with legal
and other obligations to stakeholders.
Specifically, the objective of the Code of Conduct is to:
•	 Provide a benchmark for professional behaviour;
•	 Support the Company’s business reputation and corporate
image within the community; and
•	 Make directors and employees aware of the consequences
if they breach the policy.
Skills and Experiences
Total
Mining/Exploration and production
5
Engineering
4
Capital projects
8
Trading/Marketing
5
Strategy
11
Leadership
10
Board/Committee experience
10
Corporate governance
7
Accounting/Audit/Risk management
6
Government/Policy
8
Legal/Regulatory
5
Health, safety and environment
7
Human resources
5
International business expertise
10