49
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
INFORMATION ON DIRECTORS
Xiyong Li
Chairman and Non-Executive Director
(12 September 2013–Current), EMBA
Experience and expertise
Mr Li has considerable experience in business management and
operations in the coal industry. Mr Li commenced his career in
1981 and was appointed as the head of Huafeng Coal Mine of
Xinwen Mining Group Co., Ltd. (Xinwen Group) in May 2001. In
June 2006, he was appointed as the Deputy General Manager of
Xinwen Group. In June 2010, he was appointed as the Chairman
and Secretary of the Party Committee of Xinwen Group. In March
2011, he was appointed as the Vice Chairman of Shandong Energy
Group Co., Ltd. and the Chairman and the Secretary of the Party
Committee of Xinwen Group. In July 2013, Mr Li joined the
Yankuang Group Company Limited (Yankuang Group) and was
appointed the General Manager and deputy secretary of the Party
Committee. In September 2013, he was appointed the Chairman
of Yanzhou Coal Mining Company Limited (Yanzhou).
He was also appointed the Chairman of Yancoal in September
2013. In February 2015, he was appointed as the Chairman and
Secretary of the Party Committee of Yankuang Group.
Mr Li graduated from Shandong University of Science
and Technology and Nankai University, and is a researcher
in engineering technique application with an Executive
Masters of Business Administration (EMBA) degree.
Other current key directorships
Chairman of Yanzhou Coal Mining Company Limited;
Chairman and the Secretary of the Party Committee
of Yankuang Group;
Chairman of Yancoal International (Holding) Co., Ltd;
Director of Yancoal International (Sydney) Pty Ltd.
Former directorships in last three years
None.
Special responsibilities
Chairman of the Board;
Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
Interests in shares and options
None.
CUNLIANG LAI
Executive Director (18 November 2004–19 January 2014)
Co-Vice Chairman (26 June 2012–Current)
Non-Executive Director (20 January 2014–Current), DE, EMBA
Experience and expertise
Mr Lai joined Yanzhou’s predecessor in 1980. He was appointed
as the Head of Xinglong-Zhuang Coal Mine of Yanzhou in 2000.
In 2005, he was appointed as the Deputy General Manager of
Yanzhou. Before the merger with Gloucester Coal Ltd, Mr Lai
was an Executive Director of Yancoal and was appointed the
Co-Vice Chairman and Chair of the Executive Committee in
2012. Mr Lai successfully completed the acquisition of the Austar
Coal Mine and the establishment of an appropriate corporate
governance structure for Yancoal. Mr Lai has also successfully
applied the Longwall Top Coal Caving technology in Australia
and has gained considerable experience in Australian coal
business management.
Mr Lai graduated from Nankai University and the Coal Science
Research Institute. He is a researcher in engineering technology
application with a Doctorate in Engineering and an EMBA degree.
Other current key directorships
None.
Former directorships in last three years
Director of Bauxite Resources Limited
(resigned on 21 January 2016).
Special responsibilities
Co-Vice Chairman of the Board;
Member of Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
Interests in shares and options
None.