82
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
Corporate Governance Statement
Operating risks
The Company’s operations are subject to operating risks that
could result in decreased coal production which could reduce
their respective revenues. Operational difficulties may impact
the amount of coal produced, delay coal deliveries or increase
the cost of mining for a varying length of time. These operating
risks include (but are not limited to) industrial, mine collapses,
cave-ins or other failures relating to mine infrastructure,
including tailings dams, interruptions due to inclement or
hazardous weather conditions, power interruption, critical
equipment failure (in particular any protracted breakdown or
issues with any of the Company’s CHPP or a major excavator),
fires, and explosions from methane gas or coal dust, accidental
mine water discharges, flooding and variations in or unusual
or unexpected geological or geotechnical mining conditions
(particularly in the Company’s underground operations). Such
risks could result in damage to applicable mines, personal injury,
environmental damage, delays in coal production, decreased
coal production, loss of revenue, monetary losses and possible
legal liability. Although the Company’s insurance policies provide
coverage for some of these risks, the amount and scope of
insurance cover is limited by market and economic factors
and there can be no assurance that these risks would be fully
covered by insurances maintained by the Company.
Injury or accident risks
If any injuries or accidents occur in a mine, this could have
adverse financial implications including legal claims for personal
injury, wrongful death, amendments to approvals, potential
production delays or stoppages, any of which may have a material
adverse effect on the financial performance and/or financial
position of the Company.
Funding risks
The amount of future funding required by the Company will
depend on a number of factors, including the performance of
the Company’s business at that time. The Company’s business
operations and cash flow are highly sensitive to any fluctuation in
the US$ coal price, coal production from its operations, demand
for its coal product and US$ movement in foreign exchange rates,
particularly movements in the A$:US$ exchange rate.
In developing its business plan and operating budget, the
Company has made certain assumptions regarding coal prices,
the A$:US$ exchange rate, future production levels and other
factors which determine the Company’s financial performance.
If a funding shortfall materialises, the Company may need to raise
substantial additional debt or equity. The Company’s capacity to
secure the requisite level of funding will depend on the amount
of funding required, the performance and future prospects of its
business and a number of other factors, including US$ coal prices,
interest rates, economic conditions, debt market conditions,
equity market conditions, and future levels of Yanzhou support.
To the extent that the Company is not able to secure additional
financing (whether debt or equity) on acceptable terms from third
parties, the Company will continue to rely on financial support
from Yanzhou.
Adverse foreign exchange rate movements
Foreign exchange risk is the risk of the Company sustaining
loss through adverse movements in exchange rates. Such losses
can impact the Company’s financial position and performance
and the level of additional funding required to support the
Company’s businesses.
The liabilities, earnings and cash flows of the Company
are influenced by movements in exchange rates, especially
movements in the A$:US$ exchange rate.
Foreign currency exposure arises particularly in relation to coal
supply contracts, which generally are priced and payable in US$,
procurement of imported plant and equipment, which can be
priced in US$ or other foreign currencies, and debt denominated
in currencies other than A$.
The impact of exchange rate movements will vary depending
on factors such as the nature, magnitude and duration of the
movements, the extent to which currency risk is hedged under
forward exchange contracts and the terms of these contracts.
The Company has put in place accounting hedges, pursuant
to Australian Accounting Standard 139, where future US$
denominated loan repayments are designated as “natural cash
flow hedges” of future US$ denominated coal sales revenues in
the periods immediately prior to each committed debt repayment.