94
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
The consolidated financial statements and notes are
for the consolidated entity consisting of Yancoal Australia
Ltd (“Company” or “parent entity”) and its subsidiaries
(“the Group”).
These general purpose financial statements have been
prepared in accordance with the Australian Accounting
Standards and interpretations issued by the Australian
Accounting Standards Board and the Corporations Act 2001.
Yancoal Australia Ltd is a for-profit entity for the purpose
of preparing the financial statements.
The financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance
with a resolution of the Directors on 28 February 2017.
(i) Compliance with IFRS
The consolidated financial statements of the Group
also comply with International Financial Reporting
Standards(“IFRS”) as issued by the International
Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”).
(ii) Subsidiaries
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to,
or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with
the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through
its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which
control is transferred to the Group. They are de-consolidated
from the date that control ceases.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for
business combinations by the Group. Intercompany transactions,
balances and unrealised gains on transactions between the
Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction
provides evidence of the impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are aligned to ensure
consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
(iii) Significant accounting policies
Significant accounting policies have been included in the
relevant notes to which the policies relate, and other significant
accounting policies are discussed in Note F5. These policies
have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless
otherwise stated.
(iv) Historical cost convention
These financial statements have been prepared on an accrual
basis and under the historical cost convention, as modified by
the revaluation of available for sale financial assets and financial
assets and liabilities (including derivative instruments) at fair
value through profit or loss.
(v) Rounding of amounts
The Company is of a kind referred to in ASIC Legislative
Instrument 2016/191, issued by the Australian Securities
and Investments Commission, relating to the ‘rounding off’
of amounts in the financial statements.
Amounts in the financial statements have been rounded off
in accordance with that legislative instrument to the nearest
hundred thousand dollars, or in certain cases, the nearest dollar.
(vi) New and amended standards adopted by the Group
In the prior year, the Company elected to early adopt
the AASB 2014-3 Amendments to Australian Accounting
Standards—Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests
in Joint Operations (AASB 1 and AASB 11), and AASB
2015-2 Amendments to Australian Accounting
Standards—Disclosure Initiative.
The Group has not elected to apply any other pronouncements
before their operative date in the annual reporting period
beginning 1 January 2016.
Yancoal Australia Ltd has not been required to change
some of its accounting policies as the result of new
or revised accounting standards which became effective
for the annual reporting period commencing on 1 January
2016. These standards are discussed in Note F6.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
31 December 2016
A: BASIS OF PREPARATION