50
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
BAOCAI ZHANG
Non-Executive Director (26 June 2012–19 January 2014)
Co-Vice Chairman (20 December 2013–Current)
Executive Director (20 January 2014–Current), EMBA
Experience and expertise
Mr Zhang joined Yanzhou’s predecessor in 1989 and was
appointed as the Head of the Planning and Finance department
of Yanzhou in 2002. He was appointed as a Director and
Company Secretary of Yanzhou in 2006 and Deputy General
Manager in 2011. Mr Zhang was appointed as Non-Executive
Director of Yancoal on 26 June 2012, and subsequently appointed
as Co-Vice Chairman of Yancoal on 20 December 2013. He
became the Chair of the Executive Committee of Yancoal on
20 January 2014. In October 2015, he became a director and a
standing member of the Party Committee of Yankuang Group
Company Limited. Mr Zhang planned and played a key role
in the acquisition of Felix Resources Limited and the merger
with Gloucester Coal Ltd in Australia. He also led Yanzhou’s
acquisition of potash exploration permits in Canada in 2011.
He has considerable experience in capital management and
business development in the coal industry, in particular in
financial control, corporate governance and compliance for listed
companies in Australia and overseas.
Mr Zhang graduated from Nankai University. He is a senior
accountant with an EMBA degree.
Other current key directorships
Director of Yankuang Group Company Limited;
Director of Yanzhou Coal Yulin Neng Hua Co., Ltd;
Director of Inner Mongolia Haosheng Coal Mining Limited;
Director of Yancoal International (Holding) Co., Ltd;
Director of Yancoal SCN Limited.
Former directorships in last three years
Director of Yanzhou Coal Mining Company Limited.
Special responsibilities
Co-Vice Chairman of the Board;
Chairman of the Executive Committee;
Chairman of the Strategy and Development Committee.
Interests in shares and options
1,162,790 fully paid Yancoal ordinary shares.
YUXIANG WU
Non-Executive Director (18 November 2004–Current), MACC
Experience and expertise
Mr Wu joined Yanzhou’s predecessor in 1981. Mr Wu was
appointed as the Head of the Planning and Finance department
of Yanzhou in 1997, and was appointed as the Chief Financial
Officer and a Director of Yanzhou in 2002. In 2004, Mr Wu
was appointed a Director of Yancoal. Mr Wu was appointed as
the Deputy Chief Accountant and the Head of Department of
Investment and Development of Yankuang Group in January
2016. He has considerable experience in financial management
and business development in the coal industry. He also has
extensive experience in organisational accounting, financial
control, capital management, risk management and corporate
compliance for Yanzhou and Yancoal.
Mr Wu is a senior accountant with a Masters degree in
accounting. Mr Wu graduated from the Party School of Shandong
Provincial Communist Committee.
Other current key directorships
Director of Yanzhou Coal Mining Company Limited;
Director of Yanmei Heze Neng Hua Co., Ltd;
Director of Yanzhou Coal Shanxi Neng Hua Company Limited;
Chairman of the Supervisory Committee of Huadian Zouxian
Power Generation Company Limited;
Director of Yancoal International (Holding) Co., Ltd;
Director of Yancoal International (Sydney) Pty Ltd;
Director of Yancoal SCN Limited.
Former directorships in last three years
None.
Special responsibilities
Member of Strategy and Development Committee;
Member of Audit and Risk Management Committee.
Interests in shares and options
None.
Directors’ Report