45
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
45
Directors’ Report
1. Austar controlled by Watagan Mining Company Pty Ltd (“Watagan”), from 31 March 2016.
The Directors present their report on the consolidated entity
(“Yancoal” or “the Group”) consisting of Yancoal Australia Ltd
(“the Company”) and the entities it controlled at the end of,
or during, the year ended 31 December 2016.
DIRECTORS
The following persons were Directors of Yancoal Australia
Ltd during the financial year and until the date of this
report. Directors were in office for this entire period unless
otherwise stated.
Xiyong Li
Cunliang Lai
Baocai Zhang
Yuxiang Wu
Fuqi Wang
Gregory Fletcher
Boyun Xu
William Randall
Geoffrey Raby
Vincent O’Rourke
Huaqiao Zhang
Lei Zhang (alternate director for Huaqiao Zhang
for the board meeting of the Company on 17 August 2016)
Reinhold Schmidt (alternate director for Boyun Xu
for the board meeting of Company on 13 January 2017)
SECRETARY
The name of the Secretary in office during the whole of the
financial year and up to the date of this report is as follows:
Laura Ling Zhang
REVIEW OF OPERATIONS
Safety
No significant events were recorded at Yancoal’s mine sites for
the period, with sites continuing to operate to legislative and
safety standards. Yancoal remains committed to proactively
improving the systems and processes employed across sites to
educate, communicate and record employee safety initiatives.
In April 2016 Yancoal and the Austar1 operation received formal
notification from the Department of Industry, Resources and
Energy confirming it would not be instituting prosecution
proceedings related to the investigation into the Austar
underground incident of 15 April 2014.
In August 2016, a small coal burst occurred in the main working
area of the Austar underground mine. Following a thorough and
immediate review by Yancoal (in its capacity as the management
services provider to Austar mine) and the relevant New South
Wales Government departments, the Austar mine implemented
additional safety barriers and controls in the working area prior
to the resumption of mining.
Under the direction of the Health, Safety, Environment
and Community Committee, Yancoal continues to build the
leadership, capabilities, systems and reporting procedures
required to deliver on its objectives of achieving zero harm
at its operations.
Financial performance
The loss after income tax for the year ended 31 December 2016
amounted to $227.1 million (31 December 2015: $291.2 million).
Significant global thermal coal market price improvements and
the establishing of 2016 industry-high quarterly benchmark
prices for semi-soft coking and PCI coal during the second half,
drove sales volume increases and earnings improvements for the
fourth quarter of the reporting period.
Yancoal responded to sustained low coal prices and existing
operating cash flow constraints in the first half of the year via
a debt funding arrangement and transfer of control of the Austar,
Ashton and Donaldson operations to a newly established Yancoal
subsidiary, Watagan Mining Company Pty Ltd (“Watagan”),
as announced 17 February 2016.
Cost reduction strategies continued to be supported at all
operations, with the Moolarben Stage Two project delivering
critical development and construction goals on time and on
budget, including the commencement of development coal from
the new Moolarben underground and opening of the new open
cut box cut.
Throughout 2016, Yancoal continued to restructure its
operations, maximise blending across the New South Wales
mine sites (operated and managed), and proactively managed
its existing take-or-pay arrangements.