89
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors
The Constitution provides that the Non-Executive Directors
are entitled to such remuneration as approved by the Company’s
shareholders in accordance with the Constitution, which must
not exceed the aggregate annual amount as determined by the
Company in general meeting or by its major shareholder, Yanzhou.
Remuneration for Non-Executive Directors is capped
at an aggregate amount for each financial year of $3.5 million.
Non-Executive Directors may also be paid such additional
or special remuneration as the directors decide is appropriate
where a Non-Executive Director performs extra services or makes
special exertions for the benefit of the Company.
Such additional remuneration will not form part of the
calculation of the aggregate cap on Non-Executive Directors’
remuneration for a financial year and do not require
shareholder approval.
Further details of the remuneration of the Non-Executive
Directors, executive directors and senior executives can
be found in the Remuneration Report on page 56.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee Charter
can be found within the Corporate Governance section
of the Company’s website.
Dealings in company securities
By law, and under the Company’s Insider Trading Policy,
dealing in Company securities is subject to the overriding
prohibition on trading while in possession of inside information.
In addition, the Company’s Share Trading Policy prohibits dealing
in Company securities or Yanzhou securities by directors, senior
executives and other relevant employees, as well as their closely
related parties, during specified blackout periods each year.
General employees are permitted to deal in Company securities
outside these blackout periods, however additional approval
requirements apply to directors and the CEO.
The Share Trading Policy precludes relevant employees from
entering into any hedge or derivative transactions relating
to unvested options or share rights granted to them under
incentive plans and securities that are subject to holding
locks or restrictions on dealing under such plans.
There are also restrictions that apply to relevant employees
from entering into margin lending arrangements and short-term
trading of the Company’s securities. Breaches of the policy
are treated seriously and may lead to disciplinary action,
including dismissal.
Copies of the Company’s Share Trading Policy and Insider Trading
Policy are available on the Corporate Governance section of the
Company’s website.
This Corporate Governance Statement has been approved
by the Board and is current as at 28 February 2017.