76
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
Corporate Governance Statement
Director independence
The Board comprises 11 directors, of whom five hold their
positions in an independent non-executive capacity (based
on the independence standard disclosed below). The Company’s
independent directors are Vincent O’Rourke AM, Geoffrey Raby,
Gregory Fletcher, William Randall and Huaqiao Zhang.
The Board has assessed the independence of each of the
Non-Executive Directors (including the Chairman) in light of
their interests and relationships. A majority of the Board are
not considered independent directors having regard to their
affiliation with the Company’s major shareholder, Yanzhou, and
accordingly the Company does not comply with Recommendation
2.4 of the ASX Recommendation. However, the Board considers
that its composition appropriately represents the interests of its
shareholders including its major shareholder, Yanzhou, and that
the Board has put in place appropriate policies and procedures
to guide the Board and senior executives in circumstances where
conflicts of interest may arise in its dealings with Yanzhou,
including establishing the Independent Board Committee
referred to above.
To help ensure that any conflicts of interests are identified,
the Company has put in place a standing agenda item at all
meetings of the Board and its committees to provide the
directors with the opportunity of declaring any conflicts
of interests in the subject matter of the proposed resolutions
made within the meeting.
To assist the Board in making independent judgements,
the Board Charter sets out the procedure by which the Board
collectively, and each individual director, can seek independent
professional advice, at the Company’s expense.
Each independent director must regularly provide the Board with
all information relevant to their continued compliance with the
independence standard. The independence of directors will be
reviewed by the Board on a regular basis with assistance from the
Nomination and Remuneration Committee. The Nomination and
Remuneration Committee will also assist the Board with regular
evaluation of the performance of the Board, Board committees
and individual directors.
Independence standard
In assessing the independence of its directors, the Board has
regard to the factors relevant to assessing the independence
of a director that are set out in Box 2.3 of the ASX
Recommendations (3rd edition). The criteria considered
in assessing the independence of Non-Executive Directors
are also set out in the Board Charter.
A director is considered independent if the director:
•	 Is not, and has not within the last three years been,
employed in an executive capacity by the Company
or any of its child entities;
•	 Is not, nor has within the last three years been, a partner,
director or senior employee of a provider of material
professional services to the Company or any of its child entities;
•	 Is not, nor has within the last three years been, in a material
business relationship with the Company or any of its child
entities, or an officer of, or otherwise associated with, someone
with such a relationship;
•	 Is not a substantial Shareholder of the Company or an officer
of, or otherwise associated with, a substantial Shareholder
of the Company;
•	 Does not have a material contractual relationship with the
Company or any of its child entities other than as a director;
•	 Does not have close family ties with any person who falls
within any of the categories described above;
•	 Has not been a director of the Company for such a period that
his or her independence may have been compromised; and
•	 Is free from any other interest, position, association or
relationship that might interfere, or might reasonably be
seen to interfere, with the director’s capacity to bring an
independent judgement to bear on issues before the Board
and to act in the best interests of the Company and its
shareholders generally.
The Company’s Constitution provides that the Company’s
shareholders holding a majority of the issued shares of the
Company (which confer the right to vote) may nominate
a director to the office of Chairman and may elect one
or more directors to the office of Vice Chair.